i am born

whether i shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show.

to begin my life with the beginning of my life, i record that i was born as i have been informed and believe on a friday, at twelve oclock at night. it was remarked that the clock began to strike, and i began to cry, simultaneously.

in consideration of the day and hour of my birth, it was declared by the nurse, and by some sage women in the neighbourhood who had taken a lively interest in me several months before there was any possibility of our becoming personally acquainted, first, that i was destined to be unlucky in life and secondly, that i was privileged to see ghosts and spirits both these gifts inevitably attaching, as they believed, to all unlucky infants of either gender, born towards the small hours on a friday night.

i need say nothing here, on the first head, because nothing can show better than my history whether that prediction was verified or falsified by the result. on the second branch of the question, i will only remark, that unless i ran through that part of my inheritance while i was still a baby, i have not come into it yet.

but i do not at all complain of having been kept out of this property and if anybody else should be in the present enjoyment of it, he is heartily welcome to keep it.

i was born with a caul, which was advertised for sale, in the newspapers, at the low price of fifteen guineas. whether seagoing people were short of money about that time, or were short of faith and preferred cork jackets, i dont know all i know is, that there was but one solitary bidding, and that was from an attorney connected with the billbroking business, who offered two pounds in cash, and the balance in sherry, but declined to be guaranteed from drowning on any higher bargain. consequently the advertisement was withdrawn at a dead loss  for as to sherry, my poor dear mothers own sherry was in the market then  and ten years afterwards, the caul was put up in a raffle down in our part of the country, to fifty members at halfacrown a head, the winner to spend five shillings. i was present myself, and i remember to have felt quite uncomfortable and confused, at a part of myself being disposed of in that way. the caul was won, i recollect, by an old lady with a handbasket, who, very reluctantly, produced from it the stipulated five shillings, all in halfpence, and twopence halfpenny short  as it took an immense time and a great waste of arithmetic, to endeavour without any effect to prove to her. it is a fact which will be long remembered as remarkable down there, that she was never drowned, but died triumphantly in bed, at ninetytwo. i have understood that it was, to the last, her proudest boast, that she never had been on the water in her life, except upon a bridge and that over her tea to which she was extremely partial she, to the last, expressed her indignation at the impiety of mariners and others, who had the presumption to go meandering about the world.

it was in vain to represent to her that some conveniences, tea perhaps included, resulted from this objectionable practice. she always returned, with greater emphasis and with an instinctive knowledge of the strength of her objection, let us have no meandering.

not to meander myself, at present, i will go back to my birth.

i was born at blunderstone, in suffolk, or there by, as they say in scotland. i was a posthumous child. my fathers eyes had closed upon the light of this world six months, when mine opened on it. there is something strange to me, even now, in the reflection that he never saw me and something stranger yet in the shadowy remembrance that i have of my first childish associations with his white gravestone in the churchyard, and of the indefinable compassion i used to feel for it lying out alone there in the dark night, when our little parlour was warm and bright with fire and candle, and the doors of our house were  almost cruelly, it seemed to me sometimes  bolted and locked against it.

an aunt of my fathers, and consequently a greataunt of mine, of whom i shall have more to relate by and by, was the principal magnate of our family. miss trotwood, or miss betsey, as my poor mother always called her, when she sufficiently overcame her dread of this formidable personage to mention her at all which was seldom, had been married to a husband younger than herself, who was very handsome, except in the sense of the homely adage, handsome is, that handsome does  for he was strongly suspected of having beaten miss betsey, and even of having once, on a disputed question of supplies, made some hasty but determined arrangements to throw her out of a two pair of stairs window.

these evidences of an incompatibility of temper induced miss betsey to pay him off, and effect a separation by mutual consent. he went to india with his capital, and there, according to a wild legend in our family, he was once seen riding on an elephant, in company with a baboon but i think it must have been a baboo  or a begum.

anyhow, from india tidings of his death reached home, within ten years. how they affected my aunt, nobody knew for immediately upon the separation, she took her maiden name again, bought a cottage in a hamlet on the seacoast a long way off, established herself there as a single woman with one servant, and was understood to live secluded, ever afterwards, in an inflexible retirement.

my father had once been a favourite of hers, i believe but she was mortally affronted by his marriage, on the ground that my mother was a wax doll. she had never seen my mother, but she knew her to be not yet twenty. my father and miss betsey never met again.

he was double my mothers age when he married, and of but a delicate constitution. he died a year afterwards, and, as i have said, six months before i came into the world.

this was the state of matters, on the afternoon of, what i may be excused for calling, that eventful and important friday. i can make no claim therefore to have known, at that time, how matters stood or to have any remembrance, founded on the evidence of my own senses, of what follows.

my mother was sitting by the fire, but poorly in health, and very low in spirits, looking at it through her tears, and desponding heavily about herself and the fatherless little stranger, who was already welcomed by some grosses of prophetic pins, in a drawer upstairs, to a world not at all excited on the subject of his arrival my mother, i say, was sitting by the fire, that bright, windy march afternoon, very timid and sad, and very doubtful of ever coming alive out of the trial that was before her, when, lifting her eyes as she dried them, to the window opposite, she saw a strange lady coming up the garden.

my mother had a sure foreboding at the second glance, that it was miss betsey. the setting sun was glowing on the strange lady, over the gardenfence, and she came walking up to the door with a fell rigidity of figure and composure of countenance that could have belonged to nobody else.

when she reached the house, she gave another proof of her identity.

my father had often hinted that she seldom conducted herself like any ordinary christian and now, instead of ringing the bell, she came and looked in at that identical window, pressing the end of her nose against the glass to that extent, that my poor dear mother used to say it became perfectly flat and white in a moment.

she gave my mother such a turn, that i have always been convinced i am indebted to miss betsey for having been born on a friday.

my mother had left her chair in her agitation, and gone behind it in the corner. miss betsey, looking round the room, slowly and inquiringly, began on the other side, and carried her eyes on, like a saracens head in a dutch clock, until they reached my mother.

then she made a frown and a gesture to my mother, like one who was accustomed to be obeyed, to come and open the door. my mother went.

mrs. david copperfield, i think, said miss betsey the emphasis referring, perhaps, to my mothers mourning weeds, and her condition.

yes, said my mother, faintly.

miss trotwood, said the visitor. you have heard of her, i dare say

my mother answered she had had that pleasure. and she had a disagreeable consciousness of not appearing to imply that it had been an overpowering pleasure.

now you see her, said miss betsey. my mother bent her head, and begged her to walk in.

they went into the parlour my mother had come from, the fire in the best room on the other side of the passage not being lighted  not having been lighted, indeed, since my fathers funeral and when they were both seated, and miss betsey said nothing, my mother, after vainly trying to restrain herself, began to cry.

oh tut, tut, tut said miss betsey, in a hurry. dont do that

come, come

my mother couldnt help it notwithstanding, so she cried until she had had her cry out.

take off your cap, child, said miss betsey, and let me see you.

my mother was too much afraid of her to refuse compliance with this odd request, if she had any disposition to do so. therefore she did as she was told, and did it with such nervous hands that her hair which was luxuriant and beautiful fell all about her face.

why, bless my heart exclaimed miss betsey. you are a very baby

my mother was, no doubt, unusually youthful in appearance even for her years she hung her head, as if it were her fault, poor thing, and said, sobbing, that indeed she was afraid she was but a childish widow, and would be but a childish mother if she lived.

in a short pause which ensued, she had a fancy that she felt miss betsey touch her hair, and that with no ungentle hand but, looking at her, in her timid hope, she found that lady sitting with the skirt of her dress tucked up, her hands folded on one knee, and her feet upon the fender, frowning at the fire.

in the name of heaven, said miss betsey, suddenly, why rookery

do you mean the house, maam asked my mother.

why rookery said miss betsey. cookery would have been more to the purpose, if you had had any practical ideas of life, either of you.

the name was mr. copperfields choice, returned my mother. when he bought the house, he liked to think that there were rooks about it.

the evening wind made such a disturbance just now, among some tall old elmtrees at the bottom of the garden, that neither my mother nor miss betsey could forbear glancing that way. as the elms bent to one another, like giants who were whispering secrets, and after a few seconds of such repose, fell into a violent flurry, tossing their wild arms about, as if their late confidences were really too wicked for their peace of mind, some weatherbeaten ragged old rooksnests, burdening their higher branches, swung like wrecks upon a stormy sea.

where are the birds asked miss betsey.

the  my mother had been thinking of something else.

the rooks  what has become of them asked miss betsey.

there have not been any since we have lived here, said my mother.

we thought  mr. copperfield thought  it was quite a large rookery but the nests were very old ones, and the birds have deserted them a long while.

david copperfield all over cried miss betsey. david copperfield from head to foot calls a house a rookery when theres not a rook near it, and takes the birds on trust, because he sees the nests

mr. copperfield, returned my mother, is dead, and if you dare to speak unkindly of him to me 

my poor dear mother, i suppose, had some momentary intention of committing an assault and battery upon my aunt, who could easily have settled her with one hand, even if my mother had been in far better training for such an encounter than she was that evening.

but it passed with the action of rising from her chair and she sat down again very meekly, and fainted.

when she came to herself, or when miss betsey had restored her, whichever it was, she found the latter standing at the window. the twilight was by this time shading down into darkness and dimly as they saw each other, they could not have done that without the aid of the fire.

well said miss betsey, coming back to her chair, as if she had only been taking a casual look at the prospect and when do you expect 

i am all in a tremble, faltered my mother. i dont know whats the matter. i shall die, i am sure

no, no, no, said miss betsey. have some tea.

oh dear me, dear me, do you think it will do me any good cried my mother in a helpless manner.

of course it will, said miss betsey. its nothing but fancy.

what do you call your girl

i dont know that it will be a girl, yet, maam, said my mother innocently.

bless the baby exclaimed miss betsey, unconsciously quoting the second sentiment of the pincushion in the drawer upstairs, but applying it to my mother instead of me, i dont mean that. i mean your servantgirl.

peggotty, said my mother.

peggotty repeated miss betsey, with some indignation. do you mean to say, child, that any human being has gone into a christian church, and got herself named peggotty

its her surname, said my mother, faintly. mr. copperfield called her by it, because her christian name was the same as mine.

here peggotty cried miss betsey, opening the parlour door.

tea. your mistress is a little unwell. dont dawdle.

having issued this mandate with as much potentiality as if she had been a recognized authority in the house ever since it had been a house, and having looked out to confront the amazed peggotty coming along the passage with a candle at the sound of a strange voice, miss betsey shut the door again, and sat down as before with her feet on the fender, the skirt of her dress tucked up, and her hands folded on one knee.

you were speaking about its being a girl, said miss betsey. i have no doubt it will be a girl. i have a presentiment that it must be a girl. now child, from the moment of the birth of this girl 

perhaps boy, my mother took the liberty of putting in.

i tell you i have a presentiment that it must be a girl, returned miss betsey. dont contradict. from the moment of this girls birth, child, i intend to be her friend. i intend to be her godmother, and i beg youll call her betsey trotwood copperfield.

there must be no mistakes in life with this betsey trotwood. there must be no trifling with her affections, poor dear. she must be well brought up, and well guarded from reposing any foolish confidences where they are not deserved. i must make that my care.

there was a twitch of miss betseys head, after each of these sentences, as if her own old wrongs were working within her, and she repressed any plainer reference to them by strong constraint.

so my mother suspected, at least, as she observed her by the low glimmer of the fire too much scared by miss betsey, too uneasy in herself, and too subdued and bewildered altogether, to observe anything very clearly, or to know what to say.

and was david good to you, child asked miss betsey, when she had been silent for a little while, and these motions of her head had gradually ceased. were you comfortable together

we were very happy, said my mother. mr. copperfield was only too good to me.

what, he spoilt you, i suppose returned miss betsey.

for being quite alone and dependent on myself in this rough world again, yes, i fear he did indeed, sobbed my mother.

well dont cry said miss betsey. you were not equally matched, child  if any two people can be equally matched  and so i asked the question. you were an orphan, werent you

yes.

and a governess

i was nurserygoverness in a family where mr. copperfield came to visit. mr. copperfield was very kind to me, and took a great deal of notice of me, and paid me a good deal of attention, and at last proposed to me. and i accepted him. and so we were married, said my mother simply.

ha poor baby mused miss betsey, with her frown still bent upon the fire. do you know anything

i beg your pardon, maam, faltered my mother.

about keeping house, for instance, said miss betsey.

not much, i fear, returned my mother. not so much as i could wish. but mr. copperfield was teaching me  much he knew about it himself said miss betsey in a parenthesis.  and i hope i should have improved, being very anxious to learn, and he very patient to teach me, if the great misfortune of his death  my mother broke down again here, and could get no farther.

well, well said miss betsey. i kept my housekeepingbook regularly, and balanced it with mr.

copperfield every night, cried my mother in another burst of distress, and breaking down again.

well, well said miss betsey. dont cry any more.  and i am sure we never had a word of difference respecting it, except when mr. copperfield objected to my threes and fives being too much like each other, or to my putting curly tails to my sevens and nines, resumed my mother in another burst, and breaking down again.

youll make yourself ill, said miss betsey, and you know that will not be good either for you or for my goddaughter. come you mustnt do it

this argument had some share in quieting my mother, though her increasing indisposition had a larger one. there was an interval of silence, only broken by miss betseys occasionally ejaculating ha as she sat with her feet upon the fender.

david had bought an annuity for himself with his money, i know, said she, by and by. what did he do for you

mr. copperfield, said my mother, answering with some difficulty, was so considerate and good as to secure the reversion of a part of it to me.

how much asked miss betsey.

a hundred and five pounds a year, said my mother.

he might have done worse, said my aunt.

the word was appropriate to the moment. my mother was so much worse that peggotty, coming in with the teaboard and candles, and seeing at a glance how ill she was,  as miss betsey might have done sooner if there had been light enough,  conveyed her upstairs to her own room with all speed and immediately dispatched ham peggotty, her nephew, who had been for some days past secreted in the house, unknown to my mother, as a special messenger in case of emergency, to fetch the nurse and doctor.

those allied powers were considerably astonished, when they arrived within a few minutes of each other, to find an unknown lady of portentous appearance, sitting before the fire, with her bonnet tied over her left arm, stopping her ears with jewellers cotton.

peggotty knowing nothing about her, and my mother saying nothing about her, she was quite a mystery in the parlour and the fact of her having a magazine of jewellers cotton in her pocket, and sticking the article in her ears in that way, did not detract from the solemnity of her presence.

the doctor having been upstairs and come down again, and having satisfied himself, i suppose, that there was a probability of this unknown lady and himself having to sit there, face to face, for some hours, laid himself out to be polite and social. he was the meekest of his sex, the mildest of little men. he sidled in and out of a room, to take up the less space. he walked as softly as the ghost in hamlet, and more slowly. he carried his head on one side, partly in modest depreciation of himself, partly in modest propitiation of everybody else. it is nothing to say that he hadnt a word to throw at a dog. he couldnt have thrown a word at a mad dog. he might have offered him one gently, or half a one, or a fragment of one for he spoke as slowly as he walked but he wouldnt have been rude to him, and he couldnt have been quick with him, for any earthly consideration.

mr. chillip, looking mildly at my aunt with his head on one side, and making her a little bow, said, in allusion to the jewellers cotton, as he softly touched his left ear some local irritation, maam

what replied my aunt, pulling the cotton out of one ear like a cork.

mr. chillip was so alarmed by her abruptness  as he told my mother afterwards  that it was a mercy he didnt lose his presence of mind. but he repeated sweetly some local irritation, maam

nonsense replied my aunt, and corked herself again, at one blow.

mr. chillip could do nothing after this, but sit and look at her feebly, as she sat and looked at the fire, until he was called upstairs again. after some quarter of an hours absence, he returned.

well said my aunt, taking the cotton out of the ear nearest to him.

well, maam, returned mr. chillip, we are we are progressing slowly, maam.

baaah said my aunt, with a perfect shake on the contemptuous interjection. and corked herself as before.

really  really  as mr. chillip told my mother, he was almost shocked speaking in a professional point of view alone, he was almost shocked. but he sat and looked at her, notwithstanding, for nearly two hours, as she sat looking at the fire, until he was again called out. after another absence, he again returned.

well said my aunt, taking out the cotton on that side again.

well, maam, returned mr. chillip, we are  we are progressing slowly, maam.

yaaah said my aunt. with such a snarl at him, that mr.

chillip absolutely could not bear it. it was really calculated to break his spirit, he said afterwards. he preferred to go and sit upon the stairs, in the dark and a strong draught, until he was again sent for.

ham peggotty, who went to the national school, and was a very dragon at his catechism, and who may therefore be regarded as a credible witness, reported next day, that happening to peep in at the parlourdoor an hour after this, he was instantly descried by miss betsey, then walking to and fro in a state of agitation, and pounced upon before he could make his escape. that there were now occasional sounds of feet and voices overhead which he inferred the cotton did not exclude, from the circumstance of his evidently being clutched by the lady as a victim on whom to expend her superabundant agitation when the sounds were loudest. that, marching him constantly up and down by the collar as if he had been taking too much laudanum, she, at those times, shook him, rumpled his hair, made light of his linen, stopped his ears as if she confounded them with her own, and otherwise tousled and maltreated him. this was in part confirmed by his aunt, who saw him at half past twelve oclock, soon after his release, and affirmed that he was then as red as i was.

the mild mr. chillip could not possibly bear malice at such a time, if at any time. he sidled into the parlour as soon as he was at liberty, and said to my aunt in his meekest manner well, maam, i am happy to congratulate you.

what upon said my aunt, sharply.

mr. chillip was fluttered again, by the extreme severity of my aunts manner so he made her a little bow and gave her a little smile, to mollify her.

mercy on the man, whats he doing cried my aunt, impatiently.

cant he speak

be calm, my dear maam, said mr. chillip, in his softest accents.

there is no longer any occasion for uneasiness, maam. be calm.

it has since been considered almost a miracle that my aunt didnt shake him, and shake what he had to say, out of him. she only shook her own head at him, but in a way that made him quail.

well, maam, resumed mr. chillip, as soon as he had courage, i am happy to congratulate you. all is now over, maam, and well over.

during the five minutes or so that mr. chillip devoted to the delivery of this oration, my aunt eyed him narrowly.

how is she said my aunt, folding her arms with her bonnet still tied on one of them.

well, maam, she will soon be quite comfortable, i hope, returned mr. chillip. quite as comfortable as we can expect a young mother to be, under these melancholy domestic circumstances. there cannot be any objection to your seeing her presently, maam. it may do her good.

and she. how is she said my aunt, sharply.

mr. chillip laid his head a little more on one side, and looked at my aunt like an amiable bird.

the baby, said my aunt. how is she

maam, returned mr. chillip, i apprehended you had known. its a boy.

my aunt said never a word, but took her bonnet by the strings, in the manner of a sling, aimed a blow at mr. chillips head with it, put it on bent, walked out, and never came back. she vanished like a discontented fairy or like one of those supernatural beings, whom it was popularly supposed i was entitled to see and never came back any more.

no. i lay in my basket, and my mother lay in her bed but betsey trotwood copperfield was for ever in the land of dreams and shadows, the tremendous region whence i had so lately travelled and the light upon the window of our room shone out upon the earthly bourne of all such travellers, and the mound above the ashes and the dust that once was he, without whom i had never been.



chapter 

i observe

the first objects that assume a distinct presence before me, as i look far back, into the blank of my infancy, are my mother with her pretty hair and youthful shape, and peggotty with no shape at all, and eyes so dark that they seemed to darken their whole neighbourhood in her face, and cheeks and arms so hard and red that i wondered the birds didnt peck her in preference to apples.

i believe i can remember these two at a little distance apart, dwarfed to my sight by stooping down or kneeling on the floor, and i going unsteadily from the one to the other. i have an impression on my mind which i cannot distinguish from actual remembrance, of the touch of peggottys forefinger as she used to hold it out to me, and of its being roughened by needlework, like a pocket nutmeggrater.

this may be fancy, though i think the memory of most of us can go farther back into such times than many of us suppose just as i believe the power of observation in numbers of very young children to be quite wonderful for its closeness and accuracy. indeed, i think that most grown men who are remarkable in this respect, may with greater propriety be said not to have lost the faculty, than to have acquired it the rather, as i generally observe such men to retain a certain freshness, and gentleness, and capacity of being pleased, which are also an inheritance they have preserved from their childhood.

i might have a misgiving that i am meandering in stopping to say this, but that it brings me to remark that i build these conclusions, in part upon my own experience of myself and if it should appear from anything i may set down in this narrative that i was a child of close observation, or that as a man i have a strong memory of my childhood, i undoubtedly lay claim to both of these characteristics.

looking back, as i was saying, into the blank of my infancy, the first objects i can remember as standing out by themselves from a confusion of things, are my mother and peggotty. what else do i remember let me see.


there comes out of the cloud, our house  not new to me, but quite familiar, in its earliest remembrance. on the groundfloor is peggottys kitchen, opening into a back yard with a pigeonhouse on a pole, in the centre, without any pigeons in it a great dogkennel in a corner, without any dog and a quantity of fowls that look terribly tall to me, walking about, in a menacing and ferocious manner. there is one cock who gets upon a post to crow, and seems to take particular notice of me as i look at him through the kitchen window, who makes me shiver, he is so fierce. of the geese outside the sidegate who come waddling after me with their long necks stretched out when i go that way, i dream at night as a man environed by wild beasts might dream of lions.

here is a long passage  what an enormous perspective i make of it  leading from peggottys kitchen to the front door. a dark storeroom opens out of it, and that is a place to be run past at night for i dont know what may be among those tubs and jars and old teachests, when there is nobody in there with a dimlyburning light, letting a mouldy air come out of the door, in which there is the smell of soap, pickles, pepper, candles, and coffee, all at one whiff. then there are the two parlours the parlour in which we sit of an evening, my mother and i and peggotty  for peggotty is quite our companion, when her work is done and we are alone  and the best parlour where we sit on a sunday grandly, but not so comfortably. there is something of a doleful air about that room to me, for peggotty has told me  i dont know when, but apparently ages ago  about my fathers funeral, and the company having their black cloaks put on. one sunday night my mother reads to peggotty and me in there, how lazarus was raised up from the dead. and i am so frightened that they are afterwards obliged to take me out of bed, and show me the quiet churchyard out of the bedroom window, with the dead all lying in their graves at rest, below the solemn moon.

there is nothing half so green that i know anywhere, as the grass of that churchyard nothing half so shady as its trees nothing half so quiet as its tombstones. the sheep are feeding there, when i kneel up, early in the morning, in my little bed in a closet within my mothers room, to look out at it and i see the red light shining on the sundial, and think within myself, is the sundial glad, i wonder, that it can tell the time again

here is our pew in the church. what a highbacked pew with a window near it, out of which our house can be seen, and is seen many times during the mornings service, by peggotty, who likes to make herself as sure as she can that its not being robbed, or is not in flames. but though peggottys eye wanders, she is much offended if mine does, and frowns to me, as i stand upon the seat, that i am to look at the clergyman. but i cant always look at him  i know him without that white thing on, and i am afraid of his wondering why i stare so, and perhaps stopping the service to inquire  and what am i to do its a dreadful thing to gape, but i must do something. i look at my mother, but she pretends not to see me. i look at a boy in the aisle, and he makes faces at me.

i look at the sunlight coming in at the open door through the porch, and there i see a stray sheep  i dont mean a sinner, but mutton  half making up his mind to come into the church. i feel that if i looked at him any longer, i might be tempted to say something out loud and what would become of me then i look up at the monumental tablets on the wall, and try to think of mr. bodgers late of this parish, and what the feelings of mrs. bodgers must have been, when affliction sore, long time mr. bodgers bore, and physicians were in vain. i wonder whether they called in mr.

chillip, and he was in vain and if so, how he likes to be reminded of it once a week. i look from mr. chillip, in his sunday neckcloth, to the pulpit and think what a good place it would be to play in, and what a castle it would make, with another boy coming up the stairs to attack it, and having the velvet cushion with the tassels thrown down on his head. in time my eyes gradually shut up and, from seeming to hear the clergyman singing a drowsy song in the heat, i hear nothing, until i fall off the seat with a crash, and am taken out, more dead than alive, by peggotty.

and now i see the outside of our house, with the latticed bedroomwindows standing open to let in the sweetsmelling air, and the ragged old rooksnests still dangling in the elmtrees at the bottom of the front garden. now i am in the garden at the back, beyond the yard where the empty pigeonhouse and dogkennel are  a very preserve of butterflies, as i remember it, with a high fence, and a gate and padlock where the fruit clusters on the trees, riper and richer than fruit has ever been since, in any other garden, and where my mother gathers some in a basket, while i stand by, bolting furtive gooseberries, and trying to look unmoved. a great wind rises, and the summer is gone in a moment.

we are playing in the winter twilight, dancing about the parlour.

when my mother is out of breath and rests herself in an elbowchair, i watch her winding her bright curls round her fingers, and straitening her waist, and nobody knows better than i do that she likes to look so well, and is proud of being so pretty.

that is among my very earliest impressions. that, and a sense that we were both a little afraid of peggotty, and submitted ourselves in most things to her direction, were among the first opinions  if they may be so called  that i ever derived from what i saw.

peggotty and i were sitting one night by the parlour fire, alone.

i had been reading to peggotty about crocodiles. i must have read very perspicuously, or the poor soul must have been deeply interested, for i remember she had a cloudy impression, after i had done, that they were a sort of vegetable. i was tired of reading, and dead sleepy but having leave, as a high treat, to sit up until my mother came home from spending the evening at a neighbours, i would rather have died upon my post of course than have gone to bed. i had reached that stage of sleepiness when peggotty seemed to swell and grow immensely large. i propped my eyelids open with my two forefingers, and looked perseveringly at her as she sat at work at the little bit of waxcandle she kept for her thread  how old it looked, being so wrinkled in all directions  at the little house with a thatched roof, where the yardmeasure lived at her workbox with a sliding lid, with a view of st. pauls cathedral with a pink dome painted on the top at the brass thimble on her finger at herself, whom i thought lovely. i felt so sleepy, that i knew if i lost sight of anything for a moment, i was gone.

peggotty, says i, suddenly, were you ever married

lord, master davy, replied peggotty. whats put marriage in your head

she answered with such a start, that it quite awoke me. and then she stopped in her work, and looked at me, with her needle drawn out to its threads length.

but were you ever married, peggotty says i. you are a very handsome woman, ant you

i thought her in a different style from my mother, certainly but of another school of beauty, i considered her a perfect example.

there was a red velvet footstool in the best parlour, on which my mother had painted a nosegay. the groundwork of that stool, and peggottys complexion appeared to me to be one and the same thing.

the stool was smooth, and peggotty was rough, but that made no difference.

me handsome, davy said peggotty. lawk, no, my dear but what put marriage in your head

i dont know  you mustnt marry more than one person at a time, may you, peggotty

certainly not, says peggotty, with the promptest decision.

but if you marry a person, and the person dies, why then you may marry another person, maynt you, peggotty

you may, says peggotty, if you choose, my dear. thats a matter of opinion.

but what is your opinion, peggotty said i.

i asked her, and looked curiously at her, because she looked so curiously at me.

my opinion is, said peggotty, taking her eyes from me, after a little indecision and going on with her work, that i never was married myself, master davy, and that i dont expect to be. thats all i know about the subject.

you ant cross, i suppose, peggotty, are you said i, after sitting quiet for a minute.

i really thought she was, she had been so short with me but i was quite mistaken for she laid aside her work which was a stocking of her own, and opening her arms wide, took my curly head within them, and gave it a good squeeze. i know it was a good squeeze, because, being very plump, whenever she made any little exertion after she was dressed, some of the buttons on the back of her gown flew off. and i recollect two bursting to the opposite side of the parlour, while she was hugging me.

now let me hear some more about the crorkindills, said peggotty, who was not quite right in the name yet, for i ant heard half enough.

i couldnt quite understand why peggotty looked so queer, or why she was so ready to go back to the crocodiles. however, we returned to those monsters, with fresh wakefulness on my part, and we left their eggs in the sand for the sun to hatch and we ran away from them, and baffled them by constantly turning, which they were unable to do quickly, on account of their unwieldy make and we went into the water after them, as natives, and put sharp pieces of timber down their throats and in short we ran the whole crocodile gauntlet. i did, at least but i had my doubts of peggotty, who was thoughtfully sticking her needle into various parts of her face and arms, all the time.

we had exhausted the crocodiles, and begun with the alligators, when the gardenbell rang. we went out to the door and there was my mother, looking unusually pretty, i thought, and with her a gentleman with beautiful black hair and whiskers, who had walked home with us from church last sunday.

as my mother stooped down on the threshold to take me in her arms and kiss me, the gentleman said i was a more highly privileged little fellow than a monarch  or something like that for my later understanding comes, i am sensible, to my aid here.

what does that mean i asked him, over her shoulder.

he patted me on the head but somehow, i didnt like him or his deep voice, and i was jealous that his hand should touch my mothers in touching me  which it did. i put it away, as well as i could.

oh, davy remonstrated my mother.

dear boy said the gentleman. i cannot wonder at his devotion

i never saw such a beautiful colour on my mothers face before.

she gently chid me for being rude and, keeping me close to her shawl, turned to thank the gentleman for taking so much trouble as to bring her home. she put out her hand to him as she spoke, and, as he met it with his own, she glanced, i thought, at me.

let us say good night, my fine boy, said the gentleman, when he had bent his head  i saw him  over my mothers little glove.

good night said i.

come let us be the best friends in the world said the gentleman, laughing. shake hands

my right hand was in my mothers left, so i gave him the other.

why, thats the wrong hand, davy laughed the gentleman.

my mother drew my right hand forward, but i was resolved, for my former reason, not to give it him, and i did not. i gave him the other, and he shook it heartily, and said i was a brave fellow, and went away.

at this minute i see him turn round in the garden, and give us a last look with his illomened black eyes, before the door was shut.

peggotty, who had not said a word or moved a finger, secured the fastenings instantly, and we all went into the parlour. my mother, contrary to her usual habit, instead of coming to the elbowchair by the fire, remained at the other end of the room, and sat singing to herself.  hope you have had a pleasant evening, maam, said peggotty, standing as stiff as a barrel in the centre of the room, with a candlestick in her hand.

much obliged to you, peggotty, returned my mother, in a cheerful voice, i have had a very pleasant evening.

a stranger or so makes an agreeable change, suggested peggotty.

a very agreeable change, indeed, returned my mother.

peggotty continuing to stand motionless in the middle of the room, and my mother resuming her singing, i fell asleep, though i was not so sound asleep but that i could hear voices, without hearing what they said. when i half awoke from this uncomfortable doze, i found peggotty and my mother both in tears, and both talking.

not such a one as this, mr. copperfield wouldnt have liked, said peggotty. that i say, and that i swear

good heavens cried my mother, youll drive me mad was ever any poor girl so illused by her servants as i am why do i do myself the injustice of calling myself a girl have i never been married, peggotty

god knows you have, maam, returned peggotty.

then, how can you dare, said my mother  you know i dont mean how can you dare, peggotty, but how can you have the heart  to make me so uncomfortable and say such bitter things to me, when you are well aware that i havent, out of this place, a single friend to turn to

the mores the reason, returned peggotty, for saying that it wont do. no that it wont do. no no price could make it do.

no  i thought peggotty would have thrown the candlestick away, she was so emphatic with it.

how can you be so aggravating, said my mother, shedding more tears than before, as to talk in such an unjust manner how can you go on as if it was all settled and arranged, peggotty, when i tell you over and over again, you cruel thing, that beyond the commonest civilities nothing has passed you talk of admiration.

what am i to do if people are so silly as to indulge the sentiment, is it my fault what am i to do, i ask you would you wish me to shave my head and black my face, or disfigure myself with a burn, or a scald, or something of that sort i dare say you would, peggotty. i dare say youd quite enjoy it.

peggotty seemed to take this aspersion very much to heart, i thought.

and my dear boy, cried my mother, coming to the elbowchair in which i was, and caressing me, my own little davy is it to be hinted to me that i am wanting in affection for my precious treasure, the dearest little fellow that ever was

nobody never went and hinted no such a thing, said peggotty.

you did, peggotty returned my mother. you know you did. what else was it possible to infer from what you said, you unkind creature, when you know as well as i do, that on his account only last quarter i wouldnt buy myself a new parasol, though that old green one is frayed the whole way up, and the fringe is perfectly mangy you know it is, peggotty. you cant deny it. then, turning affectionately to me, with her cheek against mine, am i a naughty mama to you, davy am i a nasty, cruel, selfish, bad mama

say i am, my child say yes, dear boy, and peggotty will love you and peggottys love is a great deal better than mine, davy.

i dont love you at all, do i

at this, we all fell acrying together. i think i was the loudest of the party, but i am sure we were all sincere about it. i was quite heartbroken myself, and am afraid that in the first transports of wounded tenderness i called peggotty a beast. that honest creature was in deep affliction, i remember, and must have become quite buttonless on the occasion for a little volley of those explosives went off, when, after having made it up with my mother, she kneeled down by the elbowchair, and made it up with me.

we went to bed greatly dejected. my sobs kept waking me, for a long time and when one very strong sob quite hoisted me up in bed, i found my mother sitting on the coverlet, and leaning over me. i fell asleep in her arms, after that, and slept soundly.

whether it was the following sunday when i saw the gentleman again, or whether there was any greater lapse of time before he reappeared, i cannot recall. i dont profess to be clear about dates. but there he was, in church, and he walked home with us afterwards. he came in, too, to look at a famous geranium we had, in the parlourwindow. it did not appear to me that he took much notice of it, but before he went he asked my mother to give him a bit of the blossom. she begged him to choose it for himself, but he refused to do that  i could not understand why  so she plucked it for him, and gave it into his hand. he said he would never, never part with it any more and i thought he must be quite a fool not to know that it would fall to pieces in a day or two.

peggotty began to be less with us, of an evening, than she had always been. my mother deferred to her very much  more than usual, it occurred to me  and we were all three excellent friends still we were different from what we used to be, and were not so comfortable among ourselves. sometimes i fancied that peggotty perhaps objected to my mothers wearing all the pretty dresses she had in her drawers, or to her going so often to visit at that neighbours but i couldnt, to my satisfaction, make out how it was.

gradually, i became used to seeing the gentleman with the black whiskers. i liked him no better than at first, and had the same uneasy jealousy of him but if i had any reason for it beyond a childs instinctive dislike, and a general idea that peggotty and i could make much of my mother without any help, it certainly was not the reason that i might have found if i had been older. no such thing came into my mind, or near it. i could observe, in little pieces, as it were but as to making a net of a number of these pieces, and catching anybody in it, that was, as yet, beyond me.

one autumn morning i was with my mother in the front garden, when mr. murdstone  i knew him by that name now  came by, on horseback. he reined up his horse to salute my mother, and said he was going to lowestoft to see some friends who were there with a yacht, and merrily proposed to take me on the saddle before him if i would like the ride.

the air was so clear and pleasant, and the horse seemed to like the idea of the ride so much himself, as he stood snorting and pawing at the gardengate, that i had a great desire to go. so i was sent upstairs to peggotty to be made spruce and in the meantime mr.

murdstone dismounted, and, with his horses bridle drawn over his arm, walked slowly up and down on the outer side of the sweetbriar fence, while my mother walked slowly up and down on the inner to keep him company. i recollect peggotty and i peeping out at them from my little window i recollect how closely they seemed to be examining the sweetbriar between them, as they strolled along and how, from being in a perfectly angelic temper, peggotty turned cross in a moment, and brushed my hair the wrong way, excessively hard.

mr. murdstone and i were soon off, and trotting along on the green turf by the side of the road. he held me quite easily with one arm, and i dont think i was restless usually but i could not make up my mind to sit in front of him without turning my head sometimes, and looking up in his face. he had that kind of shallow black eye  i want a better word to express an eye that has no depth in it to be looked into  which, when it is abstracted, seems from some peculiarity of light to be disfigured, for a moment at a time, by a cast. several times when i glanced at him, i observed that appearance with a sort of awe, and wondered what he was thinking about so closely. his hair and whiskers were blacker and thicker, looked at so near, than even i had given them credit for being. a squareness about the lower part of his face, and the dotted indication of the strong black beard he shaved close every day, reminded me of the waxwork that had travelled into our neighbourhood some halfayear before. this, his regular eyebrows, and the rich white, and black, and brown, of his complexion  confound his complexion, and his memory  made me think him, in spite of my misgivings, a very handsome man. i have no doubt that my poor dear mother thought him so too.

we went to an hotel by the sea, where two gentlemen were smoking cigars in a room by themselves. each of them was lying on at least four chairs, and had a large rough jacket on. in a corner was a heap of coats and boatcloaks, and a flag, all bundled up together.

they both rolled on to their feet in an untidy sort of manner, when we came in, and said, halloa, murdstone we thought you were dead

not yet, said mr. murdstone.

and whos this shaver said one of the gentlemen, taking hold of me.

thats davy, returned mr. murdstone.

davy who said the gentleman. jones

copperfield, said mr. murdstone.

what bewitching mrs. copperfields encumbrance cried the gentleman. the pretty little widow

quinion, said mr. murdstone, take care, if you please.

somebodys sharp.

who is asked the gentleman, laughing.

i looked up, quickly being curious to know.

only brooks of sheffield, said mr. murdstone.

i was quite relieved to find that it was only brooks of sheffield for, at first, i really thought it was i.

there seemed to be something very comical in the reputation of mr.

brooks of sheffield, for both the gentlemen laughed heartily when he was mentioned, and mr. murdstone was a good deal amused also.

after some laughing, the gentleman whom he had called quinion, said and what is the opinion of brooks of sheffield, in reference to the projected business

why, i dont know that brooks understands much about it at present, replied mr. murdstone but he is not generally favourable, i believe.

there was more laughter at this, and mr. quinion said he would ring the bell for some sherry in which to drink to brooks. this he did and when the wine came, he made me have a little, with a biscuit, and, before i drank it, stand up and say, confusion to brooks of sheffield the toast was received with great applause, and such hearty laughter that it made me laugh too at which they laughed the more. in short, we quite enjoyed ourselves.

we walked about on the cliff after that, and sat on the grass, and looked at things through a telescope  i could make out nothing myself when it was put to my eye, but i pretended i could  and then we came back to the hotel to an early dinner. all the time we were out, the two gentlemen smoked incessantly  which, i thought, if i might judge from the smell of their rough coats, they must have been doing, ever since the coats had first come home from the tailors. i must not forget that we went on board the yacht, where they all three descended into the cabin, and were busy with some papers. i saw them quite hard at work, when i looked down through the open skylight. they left me, during this time, with a very nice man with a very large head of red hair and a very small shiny hat upon it, who had got a crossbarred shirt or waistcoat on, with skylark in capital letters across the chest. i thought it was his name and that as he lived on board ship and hadnt a street door to put his name on, he put it there instead but when i called him mr. skylark, he said it meant the vessel.

i observed all day that mr. murdstone was graver and steadier than the two gentlemen. they were very gay and careless. they joked freely with one another, but seldom with him. it appeared to me that he was more clever and cold than they were, and that they regarded him with something of my own feeling. i remarked that, once or twice when mr. quinion was talking, he looked at mr.

murdstone sideways, as if to make sure of his not being displeased and that once when mr. passnidge the other gentleman was in high spirits, he trod upon his foot, and gave him a secret caution with his eyes, to observe mr. murdstone, who was sitting stern and silent. nor do i recollect that mr. murdstone laughed at all that day, except at the sheffield joke  and that, by the by, was his own.

we went home early in the evening. it was a very fine evening, and my mother and he had another stroll by the sweetbriar, while i was sent in to get my tea. when he was gone, my mother asked me all about the day i had had, and what they had said and done. i mentioned what they had said about her, and she laughed, and told me they were impudent fellows who talked nonsense  but i knew it pleased her. i knew it quite as well as i know it now. i took the opportunity of asking if she was at all acquainted with mr. brooks of sheffield, but she answered no, only she supposed he must be a manufacturer in the knife and fork way.

can i say of her face  altered as i have reason to remember it, perished as i know it is  that it is gone, when here it comes before me at this instant, as distinct as any face that i may choose to look on in a crowded street can i say of her innocent and girlish beauty, that it faded, and was no more, when its breath falls on my cheek now, as it fell that night can i say she ever changed, when my remembrance brings her back to life, thus only and, truer to its loving youth than i have been, or man ever is, still holds fast what it cherished then

i write of her just as she was when i had gone to bed after this talk, and she came to bid me good night. she kneeled down playfully by the side of the bed, and laying her chin upon her hands, and laughing, said what was it they said, davy tell me again. i cant believe it.

bewitching  i began.

my mother put her hands upon my lips to stop me.

it was never bewitching, she said, laughing. it never could have been bewitching, davy. now i know it wasnt

yes, it was. bewitching mrs. copperfield, i repeated stoutly.

and, pretty.

no, no, it was never pretty. not pretty, interposed my mother, laying her fingers on my lips again.

yes it was. pretty little widow.

what foolish, impudent creatures cried my mother, laughing and covering her face. what ridiculous men ant they davy dear 

well, ma.

dont tell peggotty she might be angry with them. i am dreadfully angry with them myself but i would rather peggotty didnt know.

i promised, of course and we kissed one another over and over again, and i soon fell fast asleep.

it seems to me, at this distance of time, as if it were the next day when peggotty broached the striking and adventurous proposition i am about to mention but it was probably about two months afterwards.

we were sitting as before, one evening when my mother was out as before, in company with the stocking and the yardmeasure, and the bit of wax, and the box with st. pauls on the lid, and the crocodile book, when peggotty, after looking at me several times, and opening her mouth as if she were going to speak, without doing it  which i thought was merely gaping, or i should have been rather alarmed  said coaxingly master davy, how should you like to go along with me and spend a fortnight at my brothers at yarmouth wouldnt that be a treat

is your brother an agreeable man, peggotty i inquired, provisionally.

oh, what an agreeable man he is cried peggotty, holding up her hands. then theres the sea and the boats and ships and the fishermen and the beach and am to play with 

peggotty meant her nephew ham, mentioned in my first chapter but she spoke of him as a morsel of english grammar.

i was flushed by her summary of delights, and replied that it would indeed be a treat, but what would my mother say why then ill as good as bet a guinea, said peggotty, intent upon my face, that shell let us go. ill ask her, if you like, as soon as ever she comes home. there now

but whats she to do while were away said i, putting my small elbows on the table to argue the point. she cant live by herself.

if peggotty were looking for a hole, all of a sudden, in the heel of that stocking, it must have been a very little one indeed, and not worth darning.

i say peggotty she cant live by herself, you know.

oh, bless you said peggotty, looking at me again at last.

dont you know shes going to stay for a fortnight with mrs.

grayper. mrs. graypers going to have a lot of company.

oh if that was it, i was quite ready to go. i waited, in the utmost impatience, until my mother came home from mrs. graypers for it was that identical neighbour, to ascertain if we could get leave to carry out this great idea. without being nearly so much surprised as i had expected, my mother entered into it readily and it was all arranged that night, and my board and lodging during the visit were to be paid for.

the day soon came for our going. it was such an early day that it came soon, even to me, who was in a fever of expectation, and half afraid that an earthquake or a fiery mountain, or some other great convulsion of nature, might interpose to stop the expedition. we were to go in a carriers cart, which departed in the morning after breakfast. i would have given any money to have been allowed to wrap myself up overnight, and sleep in my hat and boots.

it touches me nearly now, although i tell it lightly, to recollect how eager i was to leave my happy home to think how little i suspected what i did leave for ever.

i am glad to recollect that when the carriers cart was at the gate, and my mother stood there kissing me, a grateful fondness for her and for the old place i had never turned my back upon before, made me cry. i am glad to know that my mother cried too, and that i felt her heart beat against mine.

i am glad to recollect that when the carrier began to move, my mother ran out at the gate, and called to him to stop, that she might kiss me once more. i am glad to dwell upon the earnestness and love with which she lifted up her face to mine, and did so.

as we left her standing in the road, mr. murdstone came up to where she was, and seemed to expostulate with her for being so moved. i was looking back round the awning of the cart, and wondered what business it was of his. peggotty, who was also looking back on the other side, seemed anything but satisfied as the face she brought back in the cart denoted.

i sat looking at peggotty for some time, in a reverie on this supposititious case whether, if she were employed to lose me like the boy in the fairy tale, i should be able to track my way home again by the buttons she would shed.



chapter 

i have a change

the carriers horse was the laziest horse in the world, i should hope, and shuffled along, with his head down, as if he liked to keep people waiting to whom the packages were directed. i fancied, indeed, that he sometimes chuckled audibly over this reflection, but the carrier said he was only troubled with a cough.

the carrier had a way of keeping his head down, like his horse, and of drooping sleepily forward as he drove, with one of his arms on each of his knees. i say drove, but it struck me that the cart would have gone to yarmouth quite as well without him, for the horse did all that and as to conversation, he had no idea of it but whistling.

peggotty had a basket of refreshments on her knee, which would have lasted us out handsomely, if we had been going to london by the same conveyance. we ate a good deal, and slept a good deal.

peggotty always went to sleep with her chin upon the handle of the basket, her hold of which never relaxed and i could not have believed unless i had heard her do it, that one defenceless woman could have snored so much.

we made so many deviations up and down lanes, and were such a long time delivering a bedstead at a publichouse, and calling at other places, that i was quite tired, and very glad, when we saw yarmouth. it looked rather spongy and soppy, i thought, as i carried my eye over the great dull waste that lay across the river and i could not help wondering, if the world were really as round as my geography book said, how any part of it came to be so flat.

but i reflected that yarmouth might be situated at one of the poles which would account for it.

as we drew a little nearer, and saw the whole adjacent prospect lying a straight low line under the sky, i hinted to peggotty that a mound or so might have improved it and also that if the land had been a little more separated from the sea, and the town and the tide had not been quite so much mixed up, like toast and water, it would have been nicer. but peggotty said, with greater emphasis than usual, that we must take things as we found them, and that, for her part, she was proud to call herself a yarmouth bloater.

when we got into the street which was strange enough to me and smelt the fish, and pitch, and oakum, and tar, and saw the sailors walking about, and the carts jingling up and down over the stones, i felt that i had done so busy a place an injustice and said as much to peggotty, who heard my expressions of delight with great complacency, and told me it was well known i suppose to those who had the good fortune to be born bloaters that yarmouth was, upon the whole, the finest place in the universe.

heres my am screamed peggotty, growed out of knowledge

he was waiting for us, in fact, at the publichouse and asked me how i found myself, like an old acquaintance. i did not feel, at first, that i knew him as well as he knew me, because he had never come to our house since the night i was born, and naturally he had the advantage of me. but our intimacy was much advanced by his taking me on his back to carry me home. he was, now, a huge, strong fellow of six feet high, broad in proportion, and roundshouldered but with a simpering boys face and curly light hair that gave him quite a sheepish look. he was dressed in a canvas jacket, and a pair of such very stiff trousers that they would have stood quite as well alone, without any legs in them.

and you couldnt so properly have said he wore a hat, as that he was covered in atop, like an old building, with something pitchy.

ham carrying me on his back and a small box of ours under his arm, and peggotty carrying another small box of ours, we turned down lanes bestrewn with bits of chips and little hillocks of sand, and went past gasworks, ropewalks, boatbuilders yards, shipwrights yards, shipbreakers yards, caulkers yards, riggers lofts, smiths forges, and a great litter of such places, until we came out upon the dull waste i had already seen at a distance when ham said, yons our house, masr davy

i looked in all directions, as far as i could stare over the wilderness, and away at the sea, and away at the river, but no house could i make out. there was a black barge, or some other kind of superannuated boat, not far off, high and dry on the ground, with an iron funnel sticking out of it for a chimney and smoking very cosily but nothing else in the way of a habitation that was visible to me.

thats not it said i. that shiplooking thing

thats it, masr davy, returned ham.

if it had been aladdins palace, rocs egg and all, i suppose i could not have been more charmed with the romantic idea of living in it. there was a delightful door cut in the side, and it was roofed in, and there were little windows in it but the wonderful charm of it was, that it was a real boat which had no doubt been upon the water hundreds of times, and which had never been intended to be lived in, on dry land. that was the captivation of it to me.

if it had ever been meant to be lived in, i might have thought it small, or inconvenient, or lonely but never having been designed for any such use, it became a perfect abode.

it was beautifully clean inside, and as tidy as possible. there was a table, and a dutch clock, and a chest of drawers, and on the chest of drawers there was a teatray with a painting on it of a lady with a parasol, taking a walk with a militarylooking child who was trundling a hoop. the tray was kept from tumbling down, by a bible and the tray, if it had tumbled down, would have smashed a quantity of cups and saucers and a teapot that were grouped around the book. on the walls there were some common coloured pictures, framed and glazed, of scripture subjects such as i have never seen since in the hands of pedlars, without seeing the whole interior of peggottys brothers house again, at one view. abraham in red going to sacrifice isaac in blue, and daniel in yellow cast into a den of green lions, were the most prominent of these. over the little mantelshelf, was a picture of the sarah jane lugger, built at sunderland, with a real little wooden stern stuck on to it a work of art, combining composition with carpentry, which i considered to be one of the most enviable possessions that the world could afford. there were some hooks in the beams of the ceiling, the use of which i did not divine then and some lockers and boxes and conveniences of that sort, which served for seats and eked out the chairs.

all this i saw in the first glance after i crossed the threshold  childlike, according to my theory  and then peggotty opened a little door and showed me my bedroom. it was the completest and most desirable bedroom ever seen  in the stern of the vessel with a little window, where the rudder used to go through a little lookingglass, just the right height for me, nailed against the wall, and framed with oystershells a little bed, which there was just room enough to get into and a nosegay of seaweed in a blue mug on the table. the walls were whitewashed as white as milk, and the patchwork counterpane made my eyes quite ache with its brightness. one thing i particularly noticed in this delightful house, was the smell of fish which was so searching, that when i took out my pockethandkerchief to wipe my nose, i found it smelt exactly as if it had wrapped up a lobster. on my imparting this discovery in confidence to peggotty, she informed me that her brother dealt in lobsters, crabs, and crawfish and i afterwards found that a heap of these creatures, in a state of wonderful conglomeration with one another, and never leaving off pinching whatever they laid hold of, were usually to be found in a little wooden outhouse where the pots and kettles were kept.

we were welcomed by a very civil woman in a white apron, whom i had seen curtseying at the door when i was on hams back, about a quarter of a mile off. likewise by a most beautiful little girl or i thought her so with a necklace of blue beads on, who wouldnt let me kiss her when i offered to, but ran away and hid herself. by and by, when we had dined in a sumptuous manner off boiled dabs, melted butter, and potatoes, with a chop for me, a hairy man with a very goodnatured face came home. as he called peggotty lass, and gave her a hearty smack on the cheek, i had no doubt, from the general propriety of her conduct, that he was her brother and so he turned out  being presently introduced to me as mr. peggotty, the master of the house.

glad to see you, sir, said mr. peggotty. youll find us rough, sir, but youll find us ready.

i thanked him, and replied that i was sure i should be happy in such a delightful place.

hows your ma, sir said mr. peggotty. did you leave her pretty jolly

i gave mr. peggotty to understand that she was as jolly as i could wish, and that she desired her compliments  which was a polite fiction on my part.

im much obleeged to her, im sure, said mr. peggotty. well, sir, if you can make out here, fur a fortnut, long wi her, nodding at his sister, and ham, and little emly, we shall be proud of your company.

having done the honours of his house in this hospitable manner, mr.

peggotty went out to wash himself in a kettleful of hot water, remarking that cold would never get his muck off. he soon returned, greatly improved in appearance but so rubicund, that i couldnt help thinking his face had this in common with the lobsters, crabs, and crawfish,  that it went into the hot water very black, and came out very red.

after tea, when the door was shut and all was made snug the nights being cold and misty now, it seemed to me the most delicious retreat that the imagination of man could conceive. to hear the wind getting up out at sea, to know that the fog was creeping over the desolate flat outside, and to look at the fire, and think that there was no house near but this one, and this one a boat, was like enchantment. little emly had overcome her shyness, and was sitting by my side upon the lowest and least of the lockers, which was just large enough for us two, and just fitted into the chimney corner. mrs. peggotty with the white apron, was knitting on the opposite side of the fire. peggotty at her needlework was as much at home with st. pauls and the bit of waxcandle, as if they had never known any other roof. ham, who had been giving me my first lesson in allfours, was trying to recollect a scheme of telling fortunes with the dirty cards, and was printing off fishy impressions of his thumb on all the cards he turned. mr. peggotty was smoking his pipe. i felt it was a time for conversation and confidence.

mr. peggotty says i.

sir, says he.

did you give your son the name of ham, because you lived in a sort of ark

mr. peggotty seemed to think it a deep idea, but answered no, sir. i never giv him no name.

who gave him that name, then said i, putting question number two of the catechism to mr. peggotty.

why, sir, his father giv it him, said mr. peggotty.

i thought you were his father

my brother joe was his father, said mr. peggotty.

dead, mr. peggotty i hinted, after a respectful pause.

drowndead, said mr. peggotty.

i was very much surprised that mr. peggotty was not hams father, and began to wonder whether i was mistaken about his relationship to anybody else there. i was so curious to know, that i made up my mind to have it out with mr. peggotty.

little emly, i said, glancing at her. she is your daughter, isnt she, mr. peggotty

no, sir. my brotherinlaw, tom, was her father.

i couldnt help it.  dead, mr. peggotty i hinted, after another respectful silence.

drowndead, said mr. peggotty.

i felt the difficulty of resuming the subject, but had not got to the bottom of it yet, and must get to the bottom somehow. so i said havent you any children, mr. peggotty

no, master, he answered with a short laugh. im a bacheldore.

a bachelor i said, astonished. why, whos that, mr. peggotty pointing to the person in the apron who was knitting.

thats missis gummidge, said mr. peggotty.

gummidge, mr. peggotty

but at this point peggotty  i mean my own peculiar peggotty  made such impressive motions to me not to ask any more questions, that i could only sit and look at all the silent company, until it was time to go to bed. then, in the privacy of my own little cabin, she informed me that ham and emly were an orphan nephew and niece, whom my host had at different times adopted in their childhood, when they were left destitute and that mrs. gummidge was the widow of his partner in a boat, who had died very poor. he was but a poor man himself, said peggotty, but as good as gold and as true as steel  those were her similes. the only subject, she informed me, on which he ever showed a violent temper or swore an oath, was this generosity of his and if it were ever referred to, by any one of them, he struck the table a heavy blow with his right hand had split it on one such occasion, and swore a dreadful oath that he would be gormed if he didnt cut and run for good, if it was ever mentioned again. it appeared, in answer to my inquiries, that nobody had the least idea of the etymology of this terrible verb passive to be gormed but that they all regarded it as constituting a most solemn imprecation.

i was very sensible of my entertainers goodness, and listened to the womens going to bed in another little crib like mine at the opposite end of the boat, and to him and ham hanging up two hammocks for themselves on the hooks i had noticed in the roof, in a very luxurious state of mind, enhanced by my being sleepy. as slumber gradually stole upon me, i heard the wind howling out at sea and coming on across the flat so fiercely, that i had a lazy apprehension of the great deep rising in the night. but i bethought myself that i was in a boat, after all and that a man like mr. peggotty was not a bad person to have on board if anything did happen.

nothing happened, however, worse than morning. almost as soon as it shone upon the oystershell frame of my mirror i was out of bed, and out with little emly, picking up stones upon the beach.

youre quite a sailor, i suppose i said to emly. i dont know that i supposed anything of the kind, but i felt it an act of gallantry to say something and a shining sail close to us made such a pretty little image of itself, at the moment, in her bright eye, that it came into my head to say this.

no, replied emly, shaking her head, im afraid of the sea.

afraid i said, with a becoming air of boldness, and looking very big at the mighty ocean. i ant

ah but its cruel, said emly. i have seen it very cruel to some of our men. i have seen it tear a boat as big as our house, all to pieces.

i hope it wasnt the boat that 

that father was drownded in said emly. no. not that one, i never see that boat.

nor him i asked her.

little emly shook her head. not to remember

here was a coincidence i immediately went into an explanation how i had never seen my own father and how my mother and i had always lived by ourselves in the happiest state imaginable, and lived so then, and always meant to live so and how my fathers grave was in the churchyard near our house, and shaded by a tree, beneath the boughs of which i had walked and heard the birds sing many a pleasant morning. but there were some differences between emlys orphanhood and mine, it appeared. she had lost her mother before her father and where her fathers grave was no one knew, except that it was somewhere in the depths of the sea.

besides, said emly, as she looked about for shells and pebbles, your father was a gentleman and your mother is a lady and my father was a fisherman and my mother was a fishermans daughter, and my uncle dan is a fisherman.

dan is mr. peggotty, is he said i.

uncle dan  yonder, answered emly, nodding at the boathouse.

yes. i mean him. he must be very good, i should think

good said emly. if i was ever to be a lady, id give him a skyblue coat with diamond buttons, nankeen trousers, a red velvet waistcoat, a cocked hat, a large gold watch, a silver pipe, and a box of money.

i said i had no doubt that mr. peggotty well deserved these treasures. i must acknowledge that i felt it difficult to picture him quite at his ease in the raiment proposed for him by his grateful little niece, and that i was particularly doubtful of the policy of the cocked hat but i kept these sentiments to myself.

little emly had stopped and looked up at the sky in her enumeration of these articles, as if they were a glorious vision.

we went on again, picking up shells and pebbles.

you would like to be a lady i said.

emily looked at me, and laughed and nodded yes.

i should like it very much. we would all be gentlefolks together, then. me, and uncle, and ham, and mrs. gummidge. we wouldnt mind then, when there comes stormy weather.  not for our own sakes, i mean. we would for the poor fishermens, to be sure, and wed help em with money when they come to any hurt. this seemed to me to be a very satisfactory and therefore not at all improbable picture.

i expressed my pleasure in the contemplation of it, and little emly was emboldened to say, shyly, dont you think you are afraid of the sea, now

it was quiet enough to reassure me, but i have no doubt if i had seen a moderately large wave come tumbling in, i should have taken to my heels, with an awful recollection of her drowned relations.

however, i said no, and i added, you dont seem to be either, though you say you are,  for she was walking much too near the brink of a sort of old jetty or wooden causeway we had strolled upon, and i was afraid of her falling over.

im not afraid in this way, said little emly. but i wake when it blows, and tremble to think of uncle dan and ham and believe i hear em crying out for help. thats why i should like so much to be a lady. but im not afraid in this way. not a bit. look here

she started from my side, and ran along a jagged timber which protruded from the place we stood upon, and overhung the deep water at some height, without the least defence. the incident is so impressed on my remembrance, that if i were a draughtsman i could draw its form here, i dare say, accurately as it was that day, and little emly springing forward to her destruction as it appeared to me, with a look that i have never forgotten, directed far out to sea.

the light, bold, fluttering little figure turned and came back safe to me, and i soon laughed at my fears, and at the cry i had uttered fruitlessly in any case, for there was no one near. but there have been times since, in my manhood, many times there have been, when i have thought, is it possible, among the possibilities of hidden things, that in the sudden rashness of the child and her wild look so far off, there was any merciful attraction of her into danger, any tempting her towards him permitted on the part of her dead father, that her life might have a chance of ending that day

there has been a time since when i have wondered whether, if the life before her could have been revealed to me at a glance, and so revealed as that a child could fully comprehend it, and if her preservation could have depended on a motion of my hand, i ought to have held it up to save her. there has been a time since  i do not say it lasted long, but it has been  when i have asked myself the question, would it have been better for little emly to have had the waters close above her head that morning in my sight and when i have answered yes, it would have been.

this may be premature. i have set it down too soon, perhaps. but let it stand.

we strolled a long way, and loaded ourselves with things that we thought curious, and put some stranded starfish carefully back into the water  i hardly know enough of the race at this moment to be quite certain whether they had reason to feel obliged to us for doing so, or the reverse  and then made our way home to mr.

peggottys dwelling. we stopped under the lee of the lobsterouthouse to exchange an innocent kiss, and went in to breakfast glowing with health and pleasure.

like two young mavishes, mr. peggotty said. i knew this meant, in our local dialect, like two young thrushes, and received it as a compliment.

of course i was in love with little emly. i am sure i loved that baby quite as truly, quite as tenderly, with greater purity and more disinterestedness, than can enter into the best love of a later time of life, high and ennobling as it is. i am sure my fancy raised up something round that blueeyed mite of a child, which etherealized, and made a very angel of her. if, any sunny forenoon, she had spread a little pair of wings and flown away before my eyes, i dont think i should have regarded it as much more than i had had reason to expect.

we used to walk about that dim old flat at yarmouth in a loving manner, hours and hours. the days sported by us, as if time had not grown up himself yet, but were a child too, and always at play.

i told emly i adored her, and that unless she confessed she adored me i should be reduced to the necessity of killing myself with a sword. she said she did, and i have no doubt she did.

as to any sense of inequality, or youthfulness, or other difficulty in our way, little emly and i had no such trouble, because we had no future. we made no more provision for growing older, than we did for growing younger. we were the admiration of mrs. gummidge and peggotty, who used to whisper of an evening when we sat, lovingly, on our little locker side by side, lor wasnt it beautiful mr. peggotty smiled at us from behind his pipe, and ham grinned all the evening and did nothing else. they had something of the sort of pleasure in us, i suppose, that they might have had in a pretty toy, or a pocket model of the colosseum.

i soon found out that mrs. gummidge did not always make herself so agreeable as she might have been expected to do, under the circumstances of her residence with mr. peggotty. mrs. gummidges was rather a fretful disposition, and she whimpered more sometimes than was comfortable for other parties in so small an establishment. i was very sorry for her but there were moments when it would have been more agreeable, i thought, if mrs. gummidge had had a convenient apartment of her own to retire to, and had stopped there until her spirits revived.

mr. peggotty went occasionally to a publichouse called the willing mind. i discovered this, by his being out on the second or third evening of our visit, and by mrs. gummidges looking up at the dutch clock, between eight and nine, and saying he was there, and that, what was more, she had known in the morning he would go there.

mrs. gummidge had been in a low state all day, and had burst into tears in the forenoon, when the fire smoked. i am a lone lorn creetur, were mrs. gummidges words, when that unpleasant occurrence took place, and everythink goes contrary with me.

oh, itll soon leave off, said peggotty  i again mean our peggotty  and besides, you know, its not more disagreeable to you than to us.

i feel it more, said mrs. gummidge.

it was a very cold day, with cutting blasts of wind. mrs.

gummidges peculiar corner of the fireside seemed to me to be the warmest and snuggest in the place, as her chair was certainly the easiest, but it didnt suit her that day at all. she was constantly complaining of the cold, and of its occasioning a visitation in her back which she called the creeps. at last she shed tears on that subject, and said again that she was a lone lorn creetur and everythink went contrary with her.

it is certainly very cold, said peggotty. everybody must feel it so.

i feel it more than other people, said mrs. gummidge.

so at dinner when mrs. gummidge was always helped immediately after me, to whom the preference was given as a visitor of distinction. the fish were small and bony, and the potatoes were a little burnt. we all acknowledged that we felt this something of a disappointment but mrs. gummidge said she felt it more than we did, and shed tears again, and made that former declaration with great bitterness.

accordingly, when mr. peggotty came home about nine oclock, this unfortunate mrs. gummidge was knitting in her corner, in a very wretched and miserable condition. peggotty had been working cheerfully. ham had been patching up a great pair of waterboots and i, with little emly by my side, had been reading to them.

mrs. gummidge had never made any other remark than a forlorn sigh, and had never raised her eyes since tea.

well, mates, said mr. peggotty, taking his seat, and how are you

we all said something, or looked something, to welcome him, except mrs. gummidge, who only shook her head over her knitting.

whats amiss said mr. peggotty, with a clap of his hands.

cheer up, old mawther mr. peggotty meant old girl. mrs. gummidge did not appear to be able to cheer up. she took out an old black silk handkerchief and wiped her eyes but instead of putting it in her pocket, kept it out, and wiped them again, and still kept it out, ready for use.

whats amiss, dame said mr. peggotty.

nothing, returned mrs. gummidge. youve come from the willing mind, danl

why yes, ive took a short spell at the willing mind tonight, said mr. peggotty.

im sorry i should drive you there, said mrs. gummidge.

drive i dont want no driving, returned mr. peggotty with an honest laugh. i only go too ready.

very ready, said mrs. gummidge, shaking her head, and wiping her eyes. yes, yes, very ready. i am sorry it should be along of me that youre so ready.

along o you it ant along o you said mr. peggotty. dont ye believe a bit on it.

yes, yes, it is, cried mrs. gummidge. i know what i am. i know that i am a lone lorn creetur, and not only that everythink goes contrary with me, but that i go contrary with everybody. yes, yes.

i feel more than other people do, and i show it more. its my misfortun.

i really couldnt help thinking, as i sat taking in all this, that the misfortune extended to some other members of that family besides mrs. gummidge. but mr. peggotty made no such retort, only answering with another entreaty to mrs. gummidge to cheer up.

i ant what i could wish myself to be, said mrs. gummidge. i am far from it. i know what i am. my troubles has made me contrary.

i feel my troubles, and they make me contrary. i wish i didnt feel em, but i do. i wish i could be hardened to em, but i ant.

i make the house uncomfortable. i dont wonder at it. ive made your sister so all day, and master davy.

here i was suddenly melted, and roared out, no, you havent, mrs.

gummidge, in great mental distress.

its far from right that i should do it, said mrs. gummidge. it ant a fit return. i had better go into the house and die. i am a lone lorn creetur, and had much better not make myself contrary here. if thinks must go contrary with me, and i must go contrary myself, let me go contrary in my parish. danl, id better go into the house, and die and be a riddance

mrs. gummidge retired with these words, and betook herself to bed.

when she was gone, mr. peggotty, who had not exhibited a trace of any feeling but the profoundest sympathy, looked round upon us, and nodding his head with a lively expression of that sentiment still animating his face, said in a whisper shes been thinking of the old un

i did not quite understand what old one mrs. gummidge was supposed to have fixed her mind upon, until peggotty, on seeing me to bed, explained that it was the late mr. gummidge and that her brother always took that for a received truth on such occasions, and that it always had a moving effect upon him. some time after he was in his hammock that night, i heard him myself repeat to ham, poor thing shes been thinking of the old un and whenever mrs.

gummidge was overcome in a similar manner during the remainder of our stay which happened some few times, he always said the same thing in extenuation of the circumstance, and always with the tenderest commiseration.

so the fortnight slipped away, varied by nothing but the variation of the tide, which altered mr. peggottys times of going out and coming in, and altered hams engagements also. when the latter was unemployed, he sometimes walked with us to show us the boats and ships, and once or twice he took us for a row. i dont know why one slight set of impressions should be more particularly associated with a place than another, though i believe this obtains with most people, in reference especially to the associations of their childhood. i never hear the name, or read the name, of yarmouth, but i am reminded of a certain sunday morning on the beach, the bells ringing for church, little emly leaning on my shoulder, ham lazily dropping stones into the water, and the sun, away at sea, just breaking through the heavy mist, and showing us the ships, like their own shadows.

at last the day came for going home. i bore up against the separation from mr. peggotty and mrs. gummidge, but my agony of mind at leaving little emly was piercing. we went arminarm to the publichouse where the carrier put up, and i promised, on the road, to write to her. i redeemed that promise afterwards, in characters larger than those in which apartments are usually announced in manuscript, as being to let. we were greatly overcome at parting and if ever, in my life, i have had a void made in my heart, i had one made that day.

now, all the time i had been on my visit, i had been ungrateful to my home again, and had thought little or nothing about it. but i was no sooner turned towards it, than my reproachful young conscience seemed to point that way with a ready finger and i felt, all the more for the sinking of my spirits, that it was my nest, and that my mother was my comforter and friend.

this gained upon me as we went along so that the nearer we drew, the more familiar the objects became that we passed, the more excited i was to get there, and to run into her arms. but peggotty, instead of sharing in those transports, tried to check them though very kindly, and looked confused and out of sorts.

blunderstone rookery would come, however, in spite of her, when the carriers horse pleased  and did. how well i recollect it, on a cold grey afternoon, with a dull sky, threatening rain

the door opened, and i looked, half laughing and half crying in my pleasant agitation, for my mother. it was not she, but a strange servant.

why, peggotty i said, ruefully, isnt she come home

yes, yes, master davy, said peggotty. shes come home. wait a bit, master davy, and ill  ill tell you something.

between her agitation, and her natural awkwardness in getting out of the cart, peggotty was making a most extraordinary festoon of herself, but i felt too blank and strange to tell her so. when she had got down, she took me by the hand led me, wondering, into the kitchen and shut the door.

peggotty said i, quite frightened. whats the matter

nothings the matter, bless you, master davy dear she answered, assuming an air of sprightliness.

somethings the matter, im sure. wheres mama

wheres mama, master davy repeated peggotty.

yes. why hasnt she come out to the gate, and what have we come in here for oh, peggotty my eyes were full, and i felt as if i were going to tumble down.

bless the precious boy cried peggotty, taking hold of me. what is it speak, my pet

not dead, too oh, shes not dead, peggotty

peggotty cried out no with an astonishing volume of voice and then sat down, and began to pant, and said i had given her a turn.

i gave her a hug to take away the turn, or to give her another turn in the right direction, and then stood before her, looking at her in anxious inquiry.

you see, dear, i should have told you before now, said peggotty, but i hadnt an opportunity. i ought to have made it, perhaps, but i couldnt azackly  that was always the substitute for exactly, in peggottys militia of words  bring my mind to it.

go on, peggotty, said i, more frightened than before.

master davy, said peggotty, untying her bonnet with a shaking hand, and speaking in a breathless sort of way. what do you think you have got a pa

i trembled, and turned white. something  i dont know what, or how  connected with the grave in the churchyard, and the raising of the dead, seemed to strike me like an unwholesome wind.

a new one, said peggotty.

a new one i repeated.

peggotty gave a gasp, as if she were swallowing something that was very hard, and, putting out her hand, said come and see him.

i dont want to see him.  and your mama, said peggotty.

i ceased to draw back, and we went straight to the best parlour, where she left me. on one side of the fire, sat my mother on the other, mr. murdstone. my mother dropped her work, and arose hurriedly, but timidly i thought.

now, clara my dear, said mr. murdstone. recollect control yourself, always control yourself davy boy, how do you do

i gave him my hand. after a moment of suspense, i went and kissed my mother she kissed me, patted me gently on the shoulder, and sat down again to her work. i could not look at her, i could not look at him, i knew quite well that he was looking at us both and i turned to the window and looked out there, at some shrubs that were drooping their heads in the cold.

as soon as i could creep away, i crept upstairs. my old dear bedroom was changed, and i was to lie a long way off. i rambled downstairs to find anything that was like itself, so altered it all seemed and roamed into the yard. i very soon started back from there, for the empty dogkennel was filled up with a great dog  deep mouthed and blackhaired like him  and he was very angry at the sight of me, and sprang out to get at me.



chapter 

i fall into disgrace

if the room to which my bed was removed were a sentient thing that could give evidence, i might appeal to it at this day  who sleeps there now, i wonder  to bear witness for me what a heavy heart i carried to it. i went up there, hearing the dog in the yard bark after me all the way while i climbed the stairs and, looking as blank and strange upon the room as the room looked upon me, sat down with my small hands crossed, and thought.

i thought of the oddest things. of the shape of the room, of the cracks in the ceiling, of the paper on the walls, of the flaws in the windowglass making ripples and dimples on the prospect, of the washingstand being rickety on its three legs, and having a discontented something about it, which reminded me of mrs. gummidge under the influence of the old one. i was crying all the time, but, except that i was conscious of being cold and dejected, i am sure i never thought why i cried. at last in my desolation i began to consider that i was dreadfully in love with little emly, and had been torn away from her to come here where no one seemed to want me, or to care about me, half as much as she did. this made such a very miserable piece of business of it, that i rolled myself up in a corner of the counterpane, and cried myself to sleep.

i was awoke by somebody saying here he is and uncovering my hot head. my mother and peggotty had come to look for me, and it was one of them who had done it.

davy, said my mother. whats the matter

i thought it was very strange that she should ask me, and answered, nothing. i turned over on my face, i recollect, to hide my trembling lip, which answered her with greater truth.

davy, said my mother. davy, my child

i dare say no words she could have uttered would have affected me so much, then, as her calling me her child. i hid my tears in the bedclothes, and pressed her from me with my hand, when she would have raised me up.

this is your doing, peggotty, you cruel thing said my mother.

i have no doubt at all about it. how can you reconcile it to your conscience, i wonder, to prejudice my own boy against me, or against anybody who is dear to me what do you mean by it, peggotty

poor peggotty lifted up her hands and eyes, and only answered, in a sort of paraphrase of the grace i usually repeated after dinner, lord forgive you, mrs. copperfield, and for what you have said this minute, may you never be truly sorry

its enough to distract me, cried my mother. in my honeymoon, too, when my most inveterate enemy might relent, one would think, and not envy me a little peace of mind and happiness. davy, you naughty boy peggotty, you savage creature oh, dear me cried my mother, turning from one of us to the other, in her pettish wilful manner, what a troublesome world this is, when one has the most right to expect it to be as agreeable as possible

i felt the touch of a hand that i knew was neither hers nor peggottys, and slipped to my feet at the bedside. it was mr.

murdstones hand, and he kept it on my arm as he said whats this clara, my love, have you forgotten  firmness, my dear

i am very sorry, edward, said my mother. i meant to be very good, but i am so uncomfortable.

indeed he answered. thats a bad hearing, so soon, clara.

i say its very hard i should be made so now, returned my mother, pouting and it is  very hard  isnt it

he drew her to him, whispered in her ear, and kissed her. i knew as well, when i saw my mothers head lean down upon his shoulder, and her arm touch his neck  i knew as well that he could mould her pliant nature into any form he chose, as i know, now, that he did it.

go you below, my love, said mr. murdstone. david and i will come down, together. my friend, turning a darkening face on peggotty, when he had watched my mother out, and dismissed her with a nod and a smile do you know your mistresss name

she has been my mistress a long time, sir, answered peggotty, i ought to know it.

thats true, he answered. but i thought i heard you, as i came upstairs, address her by a name that is not hers. she has taken mine, you know. will you remember that

peggotty, with some uneasy glances at me, curtseyed herself out of the room without replying seeing, i suppose, that she was expected to go, and had no excuse for remaining. when we two were left alone, he shut the door, and sitting on a chair, and holding me standing before him, looked steadily into my eyes. i felt my own attracted, no less steadily, to his. as i recall our being opposed thus, face to face, i seem again to hear my heart beat fast and high.

david, he said, making his lips thin, by pressing them together, if i have an obstinate horse or dog to deal with, what do you think i do

i dont know.

i beat him.

i had answered in a kind of breathless whisper, but i felt, in my silence, that my breath was shorter now.

i make him wince, and smart. i say to myself, ill conquer that fellow and if it were to cost him all the blood he had, i should do it. what is that upon your face

dirt, i said.

he knew it was the mark of tears as well as i. but if he had asked the question twenty times, each time with twenty blows, i believe my baby heart would have burst before i would have told him so.

you have a good deal of intelligence for a little fellow, he said, with a grave smile that belonged to him, and you understood me very well, i see. wash that face, sir, and come down with me.

he pointed to the washingstand, which i had made out to be like mrs. gummidge, and motioned me with his head to obey him directly.

i had little doubt then, and i have less doubt now, that he would have knocked me down without the least compunction, if i had hesitated.

clara, my dear, he said, when i had done his bidding, and he walked me into the parlour, with his hand still on my arm you will not be made uncomfortable any more, i hope. we shall soon improve our youthful humours.

god help me, i might have been improved for my whole life, i might have been made another creature perhaps, for life, by a kind word at that season. a word of encouragement and explanation, of pity for my childish ignorance, of welcome home, of reassurance to me that it was home, might have made me dutiful to him in my heart henceforth, instead of in my hypocritical outside, and might have made me respect instead of hate him. i thought my mother was sorry to see me standing in the room so scared and strange, and that, presently, when i stole to a chair, she followed me with her eyes more sorrowfully still  missing, perhaps, some freedom in my childish tread  but the word was not spoken, and the time for it was gone.

we dined alone, we three together. he seemed to be very fond of my mother  i am afraid i liked him none the better for that  and she was very fond of him. i gathered from what they said, that an elder sister of his was coming to stay with them, and that she was expected that evening. i am not certain whether i found out then, or afterwards, that, without being actively concerned in any business, he had some share in, or some annual charge upon the profits of, a winemerchants house in london, with which his family had been connected from his greatgrandfathers time, and in which his sister had a similar interest but i may mention it in this place, whether or no.

after dinner, when we were sitting by the fire, and i was meditating an escape to peggotty without having the hardihood to slip away, lest it should offend the master of the house, a coach drove up to the gardengate and he went out to receive the visitor.

my mother followed him. i was timidly following her, when she turned round at the parlour door, in the dusk, and taking me in her embrace as she had been used to do, whispered me to love my new father and be obedient to him. she did this hurriedly and secretly, as if it were wrong, but tenderly and, putting out her hand behind her, held mine in it, until we came near to where he was standing in the garden, where she let mine go, and drew hers through his arm.

it was miss murdstone who was arrived, and a gloomylooking lady she was dark, like her brother, whom she greatly resembled in face and voice and with very heavy eyebrows, nearly meeting over her large nose, as if, being disabled by the wrongs of her sex from wearing whiskers, she had carried them to that account. she brought with her two uncompromising hard black boxes, with her initials on the lids in hard brass nails. when she paid the coachman she took her money out of a hard steel purse, and she kept the purse in a very jail of a bag which hung upon her arm by a heavy chain, and shut up like a bite. i had never, at that time, seen such a metallic lady altogether as miss murdstone was.

she was brought into the parlour with many tokens of welcome, and there formally recognized my mother as a new and near relation.

then she looked at me, and said is that your boy, sisterinlaw

my mother acknowledged me.

generally speaking, said miss murdstone, i dont like boys. how dye do, boy

under these encouraging circumstances, i replied that i was very well, and that i hoped she was the same with such an indifferent grace, that miss murdstone disposed of me in two words wants manner

having uttered which, with great distinctness, she begged the favour of being shown to her room, which became to me from that time forth a place of awe and dread, wherein the two black boxes were never seen open or known to be left unlocked, and where for i peeped in once or twice when she was out numerous little steel fetters and rivets, with which miss murdstone embellished herself when she was dressed, generally hung upon the lookingglass in formidable array.

as well as i could make out, she had come for good, and had no intention of ever going again. she began to help my mother next morning, and was in and out of the storecloset all day, putting things to rights, and making havoc in the old arrangements. almost the first remarkable thing i observed in miss murdstone was, her being constantly haunted by a suspicion that the servants had a man secreted somewhere on the premises. under the influence of this delusion, she dived into the coalcellar at the most untimely hours, and scarcely ever opened the door of a dark cupboard without clapping it to again, in the belief that she had got him.

though there was nothing very airy about miss murdstone, she was a perfect lark in point of getting up. she was up and, as i believe to this hour, looking for that man before anybody in the house was stirring. peggotty gave it as her opinion that she even slept with one eye open but i could not concur in this idea for i tried it myself after hearing the suggestion thrown out, and found it couldnt be done.

on the very first morning after her arrival she was up and ringing her bell at cockcrow. when my mother came down to breakfast and was going to make the tea, miss murdstone gave her a kind of peck on the cheek, which was her nearest approach to a kiss, and said now, clara, my dear, i am come here, you know, to relieve you of all the trouble i can. youre much too pretty and thoughtless  my mother blushed but laughed, and seemed not to dislike this character  to have any duties imposed upon you that can be undertaken by me. if youll be so good as give me your keys, my dear, ill attend to all this sort of thing in future.

from that time, miss murdstone kept the keys in her own little jail all day, and under her pillow all night, and my mother had no more to do with them than i had.

my mother did not suffer her authority to pass from her without a shadow of protest. one night when miss murdstone had been developing certain household plans to her brother, of which he signified his approbation, my mother suddenly began to cry, and said she thought she might have been consulted.

clara said mr. murdstone sternly. clara i wonder at you.

oh, its very well to say you wonder, edward cried my mother, and its very well for you to talk about firmness, but you wouldnt like it yourself.

firmness, i may observe, was the grand quality on which both mr. and miss murdstone took their stand. however i might have expressed my comprehension of it at that time, if i had been called upon, i nevertheless did clearly comprehend in my own way, that it was another name for tyranny and for a certain gloomy, arrogant, devils humour, that was in them both. the creed, as i should state it now, was this. mr. murdstone was firm nobody in his world was to be so firm as mr. murdstone nobody else in his world was to be firm at all, for everybody was to be bent to his firmness. miss murdstone was an exception. she might be firm, but only by relationship, and in an inferior and tributary degree. my mother was another exception. she might be firm, and must be but only in bearing their firmness, and firmly believing there was no other firmness upon earth.

its very hard, said my mother, that in my own house 

my own house repeated mr. murdstone. clara

our own house, i mean, faltered my mother, evidently frightened  i hope you must know what i mean, edward  its very hard that in your own house i may not have a word to say about domestic matters. i am sure i managed very well before we were married.

theres evidence, said my mother, sobbing ask peggotty if i didnt do very well when i wasnt interfered with

edward, said miss murdstone, let there be an end of this. i go tomorrow.

jane murdstone, said her brother, be silent how dare you to insinuate that you dont know my character better than your words imply

i am sure, my poor mother went on, at a grievous disadvantage, and with many tears, i dont want anybody to go. i should be very miserable and unhappy if anybody was to go. i dont ask much. i am not unreasonable. i only want to be consulted sometimes. i am very much obliged to anybody who assists me, and i only want to be consulted as a mere form, sometimes. i thought you were pleased, once, with my being a little inexperienced and girlish, edward  i am sure you said so  but you seem to hate me for it now, you are so severe.

edward, said miss murdstone, again, let there be an end of this.

i go tomorrow.

jane murdstone, thundered mr. murdstone. will you be silent

how dare you

miss murdstone made a jaildelivery of her pockethandkerchief, and held it before her eyes.

clara, he continued, looking at my mother, you surprise me you astound me yes, i had a satisfaction in the thought of marrying an inexperienced and artless person, and forming her character, and infusing into it some amount of that firmness and decision of which it stood in need. but when jane murdstone is kind enough to come to my assistance in this endeavour, and to assume, for my sake, a condition something like a housekeepers, and when she meets with a base return 

oh, pray, pray, edward, cried my mother, dont accuse me of being ungrateful. i am sure i am not ungrateful. no one ever said i was before. i have many faults, but not that. oh, dont, my dear

when jane murdstone meets, i say, he went on, after waiting until my mother was silent, with a base return, that feeling of mine is chilled and altered.

dont, my love, say that implored my mother very piteously.

oh, dont, edward i cant bear to hear it. whatever i am, i am affectionate. i know i am affectionate. i wouldnt say it, if i wasnt sure that i am. ask peggotty. i am sure shell tell you im affectionate.

there is no extent of mere weakness, clara, said mr. murdstone in reply, that can have the least weight with me. you lose breath.

pray let us be friends, said my mother, i couldnt live under coldness or unkindness. i am so sorry. i have a great many defects, i know, and its very good of you, edward, with your strength of mind, to endeavour to correct them for me. jane, i dont object to anything. i should be quite brokenhearted if you thought of leaving  my mother was too much overcome to go on.

jane murdstone, said mr. murdstone to his sister, any harsh words between us are, i hope, uncommon. it is not my fault that so unusual an occurrence has taken place tonight. i was betrayed into it by another. nor is it your fault. you were betrayed into it by another. let us both try to forget it. and as this, he added, after these magnanimous words, is not a fit scene for the boy  david, go to bed

i could hardly find the door, through the tears that stood in my eyes. i was so sorry for my mothers distress but i groped my way out, and groped my way up to my room in the dark, without even having the heart to say good night to peggotty, or to get a candle from her. when her coming up to look for me, an hour or so afterwards, awoke me, she said that my mother had gone to bed poorly, and that mr. and miss murdstone were sitting alone.

going down next morning rather earlier than usual, i paused outside the parlour door, on hearing my mothers voice. she was very earnestly and humbly entreating miss murdstones pardon, which that lady granted, and a perfect reconciliation took place. i never knew my mother afterwards to give an opinion on any matter, without first appealing to miss murdstone, or without having first ascertained by some sure means, what miss murdstones opinion was and i never saw miss murdstone, when out of temper she was infirm that way, move her hand towards her bag as if she were going to take out the keys and offer to resign them to my mother, without seeing that my mother was in a terrible fright.

the gloomy taint that was in the murdstone blood, darkened the murdstone religion, which was austere and wrathful. i have thought, since, that its assuming that character was a necessary consequence of mr. murdstones firmness, which wouldnt allow him to let anybody off from the utmost weight of the severest penalties he could find any excuse for. be this as it may, i well remember the tremendous visages with which we used to go to church, and the changed air of the place. again, the dreaded sunday comes round, and i file into the old pew first, like a guarded captive brought to a condemned service. again, miss murdstone, in a black velvet gown, that looks as if it had been made out of a pall, follows close upon me then my mother then her husband. there is no peggotty now, as in the old time. again, i listen to miss murdstone mumbling the responses, and emphasizing all the dread words with a cruel relish. again, i see her dark eyes roll round the church when she says miserable sinners, as if she were calling all the congregation names. again, i catch rare glimpses of my mother, moving her lips timidly between the two, with one of them muttering at each ear like low thunder. again, i wonder with a sudden fear whether it is likely that our good old clergyman can be wrong, and mr. and miss murdstone right, and that all the angels in heaven can be destroying angels. again, if i move a finger or relax a muscle of my face, miss murdstone pokes me with her prayerbook, and makes my side ache.

yes, and again, as we walk home, i note some neighbours looking at my mother and at me, and whispering. again, as the three go on arminarm, and i linger behind alone, i follow some of those looks, and wonder if my mothers step be really not so light as i have seen it, and if the gaiety of her beauty be really almost worried away. again, i wonder whether any of the neighbours call to mind, as i do, how we used to walk home together, she and i and i wonder stupidly about that, all the dreary dismal day.

there had been some talk on occasions of my going to boardingschool. mr. and miss murdstone had originated it, and my mother had of course agreed with them. nothing, however, was concluded on the subject yet. in the meantime, i learnt lessons at home.

shall i ever forget those lessons they were presided over nominally by my mother, but really by mr. murdstone and his sister, who were always present, and found them a favourable occasion for giving my mother lessons in that miscalled firmness, which was the bane of both our lives. i believe i was kept at home for that purpose. i had been apt enough to learn, and willing enough, when my mother and i had lived alone together. i can faintly remember learning the alphabet at her knee. to this day, when i look upon the fat black letters in the primer, the puzzling novelty of their shapes, and the easy goodnature of o and q and s, seem to present themselves again before me as they used to do. but they recall no feeling of disgust or reluctance. on the contrary, i seem to have walked along a path of flowers as far as the crocodilebook, and to have been cheered by the gentleness of my mothers voice and manner all the way. but these solemn lessons which succeeded those, i remember as the deathblow of my peace, and a grievous daily drudgery and misery. they were very long, very numerous, very hard  perfectly unintelligible, some of them, to me  and i was generally as much bewildered by them as i believe my poor mother was herself.

let me remember how it used to be, and bring one morning back again.

i come into the secondbest parlour after breakfast, with my books, and an exercisebook, and a slate. my mother is ready for me at her writingdesk, but not half so ready as mr. murdstone in his easychair by the window though he pretends to be reading a book, or as miss murdstone, sitting near my mother stringing steel beads.

the very sight of these two has such an influence over me, that i begin to feel the words i have been at infinite pains to get into my head, all sliding away, and going i dont know where. i wonder where they do go, by the by

i hand the first book to my mother. perhaps it is a grammar, perhaps a history, or geography. i take a last drowning look at the page as i give it into her hand, and start off aloud at a racing pace while i have got it fresh. i trip over a word. mr.

murdstone looks up. i trip over another word. miss murdstone looks up. i redden, tumble over halfadozen words, and stop. i think my mother would show me the book if she dared, but she does not dare, and she says softly oh, davy, davy

now, clara, says mr. murdstone, be firm with the boy. dont say, oh, davy, davy thats childish. he knows his lesson, or he does not know it.

he does not know it, miss murdstone interposes awfully.

i am really afraid he does not, says my mother.

then, you see, clara, returns miss murdstone, you should just give him the book back, and make him know it.

yes, certainly, says my mother that is what i intend to do, my dear jane. now, davy, try once more, and dont be stupid.

i obey the first clause of the injunction by trying once more, but am not so successful with the second, for i am very stupid. i tumble down before i get to the old place, at a point where i was all right before, and stop to think. but i cant think about the lesson. i think of the number of yards of net in miss murdstones cap, or of the price of mr. murdstones dressinggown, or any such ridiculous problem that i have no business with, and dont want to have anything at all to do with. mr. murdstone makes a movement of impatience which i have been expecting for a long time. miss murdstone does the same. my mother glances submissively at them, shuts the book, and lays it by as an arrear to be worked out when my other tasks are done.

there is a pile of these arrears very soon, and it swells like a rolling snowball. the bigger it gets, the more stupid i get. the case is so hopeless, and i feel that i am wallowing in such a bog of nonsense, that i give up all idea of getting out, and abandon myself to my fate. the despairing way in which my mother and i look at each other, as i blunder on, is truly melancholy. but the greatest effect in these miserable lessons is when my mother thinking nobody is observing her tries to give me the cue by the motion of her lips. at that instant, miss murdstone, who has been lying in wait for nothing else all along, says in a deep warning voice clara

my mother starts, colours, and smiles faintly. mr. murdstone comes out of his chair, takes the book, throws it at me or boxes my ears with it, and turns me out of the room by the shoulders.

even when the lessons are done, the worst is yet to happen, in the shape of an appalling sum. this is invented for me, and delivered to me orally by mr. murdstone, and begins, if i go into a cheesemongers shop, and buy five thousand doublegloucester cheeses at fourpencehalfpenny each, present payment  at which i see miss murdstone secretly overjoyed. i pore over these cheeses without any result or enlightenment until dinnertime, when, having made a mulatto of myself by getting the dirt of the slate into the pores of my skin, i have a slice of bread to help me out with the cheeses, and am considered in disgrace for the rest of the evening.

it seems to me, at this distance of time, as if my unfortunate studies generally took this course. i could have done very well if i had been without the murdstones but the influence of the murdstones upon me was like the fascination of two snakes on a wretched young bird. even when i did get through the morning with tolerable credit, there was not much gained but dinner for miss murdstone never could endure to see me untasked, and if i rashly made any show of being unemployed, called her brothers attention to me by saying, clara, my dear, theres nothing like work  give your boy an exercise which caused me to be clapped down to some new labour, there and then. as to any recreation with other children of my age, i had very little of that for the gloomy theology of the murdstones made all children out to be a swarm of little vipers though there was a child once set in the midst of the disciples, and held that they contaminated one another.

the natural result of this treatment, continued, i suppose, for some six months or more, was to make me sullen, dull, and dogged.

i was not made the less so by my sense of being daily more and more shut out and alienated from my mother. i believe i should have been almost stupefied but for one circumstance.

it was this. my father had left a small collection of books in a little room upstairs, to which i had access for it adjoined my own and which nobody else in our house ever troubled. from that blessed little room, roderick random, peregrine pickle, humphrey clinker, tom jones, the vicar of wakefield, don quixote, gil blas, and robinson crusoe, came out, a glorious host, to keep me company.

they kept alive my fancy, and my hope of something beyond that place and time,  they, and the arabian nights, and the tales of the genii,  and did me no harm for whatever harm was in some of them was not there for me i knew nothing of it. it is astonishing to me now, how i found time, in the midst of my porings and blunderings over heavier themes, to read those books as i did. it is curious to me how i could ever have consoled myself under my small troubles which were great troubles to me, by impersonating my favourite characters in them  as i did  and by putting mr. and miss murdstone into all the bad ones  which i did too. i have been tom jones a childs tom jones, a harmless creature for a week together. i have sustained my own idea of roderick random for a month at a stretch, i verily believe. i had a greedy relish for a few volumes of voyages and travels  i forget what, now  that were on those shelves and for days and days i can remember to have gone about my region of our house, armed with the centrepiece out of an old set of boottrees  the perfect realization of captain somebody, of the royal british navy, in danger of being beset by savages, and resolved to sell his life at a great price. the captain never lost dignity, from having his ears boxed with the latin grammar. i did but the captain was a captain and a hero, in despite of all the grammars of all the languages in the world, dead or alive.

this was my only and my constant comfort. when i think of it, the picture always rises in my mind, of a summer evening, the boys at play in the churchyard, and i sitting on my bed, reading as if for life. every barn in the neighbourhood, every stone in the church, and every foot of the churchyard, had some association of its own, in my mind, connected with these books, and stood for some locality made famous in them. i have seen tom pipes go climbing up the churchsteeple i have watched strap, with the knapsack on his back, stopping to rest himself upon the wicketgate and i know that commodore trunnion held that club with mr. pickle, in the parlour of our little village alehouse.

the reader now understands, as well as i do, what i was when i came to that point of my youthful history to which i am now coming again.

one morning when i went into the parlour with my books, i found my mother looking anxious, miss murdstone looking firm, and mr.

murdstone binding something round the bottom of a cane  a lithe and limber cane, which he left off binding when i came in, and poised and switched in the air.

i tell you, clara, said mr. murdstone, i have been often flogged myself.

to be sure of course, said miss murdstone.

certainly, my dear jane, faltered my mother, meekly. but  but do you think it did edward good

do you think it did edward harm, clara asked mr. murdstone, gravely.

thats the point, said his sister.

to this my mother returned, certainly, my dear jane, and said no more.

i felt apprehensive that i was personally interested in this dialogue, and sought mr. murdstones eye as it lighted on mine.

now, david, he said  and i saw that cast again as he said it  you must be far more careful today than usual. he gave the cane another poise, and another switch and having finished his preparation of it, laid it down beside him, with an impressive look, and took up his book.

this was a good freshener to my presence of mind, as a beginning.

i felt the words of my lessons slipping off, not one by one, or line by line, but by the entire page i tried to lay hold of them but they seemed, if i may so express it, to have put skates on, and to skim away from me with a smoothness there was no checking.

we began badly, and went on worse. i had come in with an idea of distinguishing myself rather, conceiving that i was very well prepared but it turned out to be quite a mistake. book after book was added to the heap of failures, miss murdstone being firmly watchful of us all the time. and when we came at last to the five thousand cheeses canes he made it that day, i remember, my mother burst out crying.

clara said miss murdstone, in her warning voice.

i am not quite well, my dear jane, i think, said my mother.

i saw him wink, solemnly, at his sister, as he rose and said, taking up the cane why, jane, we can hardly expect clara to bear, with perfect firmness, the worry and torment that david has occasioned her today. that would be stoical. clara is greatly strengthened and improved, but we can hardly expect so much from her. david, you and i will go upstairs, boy.

as he took me out at the door, my mother ran towards us. miss murdstone said, clara are you a perfect fool and interfered.

i saw my mother stop her ears then, and i heard her crying.

he walked me up to my room slowly and gravely  i am certain he had a delight in that formal parade of executing justice  and when we got there, suddenly twisted my head under his arm.

mr. murdstone sir i cried to him. dont pray dont beat me i have tried to learn, sir, but i cant learn while you and miss murdstone are by. i cant indeed

cant you, indeed, david he said. well try that.

he had my head as in a vice, but i twined round him somehow, and stopped him for a moment, entreating him not to beat me. it was only a moment that i stopped him, for he cut me heavily an instant afterwards, and in the same instant i caught the hand with which he held me in my mouth, between my teeth, and bit it through. it sets my teeth on edge to think of it.

he beat me then, as if he would have beaten me to death. above all the noise we made, i heard them running up the stairs, and crying out  i heard my mother crying out  and peggotty. then he was gone and the door was locked outside and i was lying, fevered and hot, and torn, and sore, and raging in my puny way, upon the floor.

how well i recollect, when i became quiet, what an unnatural stillness seemed to reign through the whole house how well i remember, when my smart and passion began to cool, how wicked i began to feel

i sat listening for a long while, but there was not a sound. i crawled up from the floor, and saw my face in the glass, so swollen, red, and ugly that it almost frightened me. my stripes were sore and stiff, and made me cry afresh, when i moved but they were nothing to the guilt i felt. it lay heavier on my breast than if i had been a most atrocious criminal, i dare say.

it had begun to grow dark, and i had shut the window i had been lying, for the most part, with my head upon the sill, by turns crying, dozing, and looking listlessly out, when the key was turned, and miss murdstone came in with some bread and meat, and milk. these she put down upon the table without a word, glaring at me the while with exemplary firmness, and then retired, locking the door after her.

long after it was dark i sat there, wondering whether anybody else would come. when this appeared improbable for that night, i undressed, and went to bed and, there, i began to wonder fearfully what would be done to me. whether it was a criminal act that i had committed whether i should be taken into custody, and sent to prison whether i was at all in danger of being hanged

i never shall forget the waking, next morning the being cheerful and fresh for the first moment, and then the being weighed down by the stale and dismal oppression of remembrance. miss murdstone reappeared before i was out of bed told me, in so many words, that i was free to walk in the garden for half an hour and no longer and retired, leaving the door open, that i might avail myself of that permission.

i did so, and did so every morning of my imprisonment, which lasted five days. if i could have seen my mother alone, i should have gone down on my knees to her and besought her forgiveness but i saw no one, miss murdstone excepted, during the whole time  except at evening prayers in the parlour to which i was escorted by miss murdstone after everybody else was placed where i was stationed, a young outlaw, all alone by myself near the door and whence i was solemnly conducted by my jailer, before any one arose from the devotional posture. i only observed that my mother was as far off from me as she could be, and kept her face another way so that i never saw it and that mr. murdstones hand was bound up in a large linen wrapper.

the length of those five days i can convey no idea of to any one.

they occupy the place of years in my remembrance. the way in which i listened to all the incidents of the house that made themselves audible to me the ringing of bells, the opening and shutting of doors, the murmuring of voices, the footsteps on the stairs to any laughing, whistling, or singing, outside, which seemed more dismal than anything else to me in my solitude and disgrace  the uncertain pace of the hours, especially at night, when i would wake thinking it was morning, and find that the family were not yet gone to bed, and that all the length of night had yet to come  the depressed dreams and nightmares i had  the return of day, noon, afternoon, evening, when the boys played in the churchyard, and i watched them from a distance within the room, being ashamed to show myself at the window lest they should know i was a prisoner  the strange sensation of never hearing myself speak  the fleeting intervals of something like cheerfulness, which came with eating and drinking, and went away with it  the setting in of rain one evening, with a fresh smell, and its coming down faster and faster between me and the church, until it and gathering night seemed to quench me in gloom, and fear, and remorse  all this appears to have gone round and round for years instead of days, it is so vividly and strongly stamped on my remembrance.

on the last night of my restraint, i was awakened by hearing my own name spoken in a whisper. i started up in bed, and putting out my arms in the dark, said is that you, peggotty

there was no immediate answer, but presently i heard my name again, in a tone so very mysterious and awful, that i think i should have gone into a fit, if it had not occurred to me that it must have come through the keyhole.

i groped my way to the door, and putting my own lips to the keyhole, whispered is that you, peggotty dear

yes, my own precious davy, she replied. be as soft as a mouse, or the catll hear us.

i understood this to mean miss murdstone, and was sensible of the urgency of the case her room being close by.

hows mama, dear peggotty is she very angry with me

i could hear peggotty crying softly on her side of the keyhole, as i was doing on mine, before she answered. no. not very.

what is going to be done with me, peggotty dear do you know

school. near london, was peggottys answer. i was obliged to get her to repeat it, for she spoke it the first time quite down my throat, in consequence of my having forgotten to take my mouth away from the keyhole and put my ear there and though her words tickled me a good deal, i didnt hear them.

when, peggotty

tomorrow.

is that the reason why miss murdstone took the clothes out of my drawers which she had done, though i have forgotten to mention it.

yes, said peggotty. box.

shant i see mama

yes, said peggotty. morning.

then peggotty fitted her mouth close to the keyhole, and delivered these words through it with as much feeling and earnestness as a keyhole has ever been the medium of communicating, i will venture to assert shooting in each broken little sentence in a convulsive little burst of its own.

davy, dear. if i aint been azackly as intimate with you.

lately, as i used to be. it aint because i dont love you. just as well and more, my pretty poppet. its because i thought it better for you. and for someone else besides. davy, my darling, are you listening can you hear

yeyeyeyes, peggotty i sobbed.

my own said peggotty, with infinite compassion. what i want to say, is. that you must never forget me. for ill never forget you. and ill take as much care of your mama, davy. as ever i took of you. and i wont leave her. the day may come when shell be glad to lay her poor head. on her stupid, cross old peggottys arm again. and ill write to you, my dear. though i aint no scholar. and ill  ill  peggotty fell to kissing the keyhole, as she couldnt kiss me.

thank you, dear peggotty said i. oh, thank you thank you

will you promise me one thing, peggotty will you write and tell mr. peggotty and little emly, and mrs. gummidge and ham, that i am not so bad as they might suppose, and that i sent em all my love  especially to little emly will you, if you please, peggotty

the kind soul promised, and we both of us kissed the keyhole with the greatest affection  i patted it with my hand, i recollect, as if it had been her honest face  and parted. from that night there grew up in my breast a feeling for peggotty which i cannot very well define. she did not replace my mother no one could do that but she came into a vacancy in my heart, which closed upon her, and i felt towards her something i have never felt for any other human being. it was a sort of comical affection, too and yet if she had died, i cannot think what i should have done, or how i should have acted out the tragedy it would have been to me.

in the morning miss murdstone appeared as usual, and told me i was going to school which was not altogether such news to me as she supposed. she also informed me that when i was dressed, i was to come downstairs into the parlour, and have my breakfast. there, i found my mother, very pale and with red eyes into whose arms i ran, and begged her pardon from my suffering soul.

oh, davy she said. that you could hurt anyone i love try to be better, pray to be better i forgive you but i am so grieved, davy, that you should have such bad passions in your heart.

they had persuaded her that i was a wicked fellow, and she was more sorry for that than for my going away. i felt it sorely. i tried to eat my parting breakfast, but my tears dropped upon my breadandbutter, and trickled into my tea. i saw my mother look at me sometimes, and then glance at the watchful miss murdstone, and than look down, or look away.

master copperfields box there said miss murdstone, when wheels were heard at the gate.

i looked for peggotty, but it was not she neither she nor mr.

murdstone appeared. my former acquaintance, the carrier, was at the door. the box was taken out to his cart, and lifted in.

clara said miss murdstone, in her warning note.

ready, my dear jane, returned my mother. goodbye, davy. you are going for your own good. goodbye, my child. you will come home in the holidays, and be a better boy.

clara miss murdstone repeated.

certainly, my dear jane, replied my mother, who was holding me.

i forgive you, my dear boy. god bless you

clara miss murdstone repeated.

miss murdstone was good enough to take me out to the cart, and to say on the way that she hoped i would repent, before i came to a bad end and then i got into the cart, and the lazy horse walked off with it.



chapter 

i am sent away from home

we might have gone about half a mile, and my pockethandkerchief was quite wet through, when the carrier stopped short. looking out to ascertain for what, i saw, to my amazement, peggotty burst from a hedge and climb into the cart. she took me in both her arms, and squeezed me to her stays until the pressure on my nose was extremely painful, though i never thought of that till afterwards when i found it very tender. not a single word did peggotty speak.

releasing one of her arms, she put it down in her pocket to the elbow, and brought out some paper bags of cakes which she crammed into my pockets, and a purse which she put into my hand, but not one word did she say. after another and a final squeeze with both arms, she got down from the cart and ran away and, my belief is, and has always been, without a solitary button on her gown. i picked up one, of several that were rolling about, and treasured it as a keepsake for a long time.

the carrier looked at me, as if to inquire if she were coming back.

i shook my head, and said i thought not. then come up, said the carrier to the lazy horse who came up accordingly.

having by this time cried as much as i possibly could, i began to think it was of no use crying any more, especially as neither roderick random, nor that captain in the royal british navy, had ever cried, that i could remember, in trying situations. the carrier, seeing me in this resolution, proposed that my pockethandkerchief should be spread upon the horses back to dry. i thanked him, and assented and particularly small it looked, under those circumstances.

i had now leisure to examine the purse. it was a stiff leather purse, with a snap, and had three bright shillings in it, which peggotty had evidently polished up with whitening, for my greater delight. but its most precious contents were two halfcrowns folded together in a bit of paper, on which was written, in my mothers hand, for davy. with my love. i was so overcome by this, that i asked the carrier to be so good as to reach me my pockethandkerchief again but he said he thought i had better do without it, and i thought i really had, so i wiped my eyes on my sleeve and stopped myself.

for good, too though, in consequence of my previous emotions, i was still occasionally seized with a stormy sob. after we had jogged on for some little time, i asked the carrier if he was going all the way.

all the way where inquired the carrier.

there, i said.

wheres there inquired the carrier.

near london, i said.

why that horse, said the carrier, jerking the rein to point him out, would be deader than pork afore he got over half the ground.

are you only going to yarmouth then i asked.

thats about it, said the carrier. and there i shall take you to the stagecutch, and the stagecutch thatll take you to  wherever it is.

as this was a great deal for the carrier whose name was mr.

barkis to say  he being, as i observed in a former chapter, of a phlegmatic temperament, and not at all conversational  i offered him a cake as a mark of attention, which he ate at one gulp, exactly like an elephant, and which made no more impression on his big face than it would have done on an elephants.

did she make em, now said mr. barkis, always leaning forward, in his slouching way, on the footboard of the cart with an arm on each knee.

peggotty, do you mean, sir

ah said mr. barkis. her.

yes. she makes all our pastry, and does all our cooking.

do she though said mr. barkis.

he made up his mouth as if to whistle, but he didnt whistle. he sat looking at the horses ears, as if he saw something new there and sat so, for a considerable time. by and by, he said no sweethearts, i blieve

sweetmeats did you say, mr. barkis for i thought he wanted something else to eat, and had pointedly alluded to that description of refreshment.

hearts, said mr. barkis. sweet hearts no person walks with her

with peggotty

ah he said. her.

oh, no. she never had a sweetheart.

didnt she, though said mr. barkis.

again he made up his mouth to whistle, and again he didnt whistle, but sat looking at the horses ears.

so she makes, said mr. barkis, after a long interval of reflection, all the apple parsties, and doos all the cooking, do she

i replied that such was the fact.

well. ill tell you what, said mr. barkis. praps you might be writin to her

i shall certainly write to her, i rejoined.

ah he said, slowly turning his eyes towards me. well if you was writin to her, praps youd recollect to say that barkis was willin would you

that barkis is willing, i repeated, innocently. is that all the message

yees, he said, considering. yees. barkis is willin.

but you will be at blunderstone again tomorrow, mr. barkis, i said, faltering a little at the idea of my being far away from it then, and could give your own message so much better.

as he repudiated this suggestion, however, with a jerk of his head, and once more confirmed his previous request by saying, with profound gravity, barkis is willin. thats the message, i readily undertook its transmission. while i was waiting for the coach in the hotel at yarmouth that very afternoon, i procured a sheet of paper and an inkstand, and wrote a note to peggotty, which ran thus my dear peggotty. i have come here safe. barkis is willing. my love to mama. yours affectionately. p.s. he says he particularly wants you to know  barkis is willing.

when i had taken this commission on myself prospectively, mr.

barkis relapsed into perfect silence and i, feeling quite worn out by all that had happened lately, lay down on a sack in the cart and fell asleep. i slept soundly until we got to yarmouth which was so entirely new and strange to me in the innyard to which we drove, that i at once abandoned a latent hope i had had of meeting with some of mr. peggottys family there, perhaps even with little emly herself.

the coach was in the yard, shining very much all over, but without any horses to it as yet and it looked in that state as if nothing was more unlikely than its ever going to london. i was thinking this, and wondering what would ultimately become of my box, which mr. barkis had put down on the yardpavement by the pole he having driven up the yard to turn his cart, and also what would ultimately become of me, when a lady looked out of a bowwindow where some fowls and joints of meat were hanging up, and said is that the little gentleman from blunderstone

yes, maam, i said.

what name inquired the lady.

copperfield, maam, i said.

that wont do, returned the lady. nobodys dinner is paid for here, in that name.

is it murdstone, maam i said.

if youre master murdstone, said the lady, why do you go and give another name, first

i explained to the lady how it was, who than rang a bell, and called out, william show the coffeeroom upon which a waiter came running out of a kitchen on the opposite side of the yard to show it, and seemed a good deal surprised when he was only to show it to me.

it was a large long room with some large maps in it. i doubt if i could have felt much stranger if the maps had been real foreign countries, and i cast away in the middle of them. i felt it was taking a liberty to sit down, with my cap in my hand, on the corner of the chair nearest the door and when the waiter laid a cloth on purpose for me, and put a set of castors on it, i think i must have turned red all over with modesty.

he brought me some chops, and vegetables, and took the covers off in such a bouncing manner that i was afraid i must have given him some offence. but he greatly relieved my mind by putting a chair for me at the table, and saying, very affably, now, sixfoot come on

i thanked him, and took my seat at the board but found it extremely difficult to handle my knife and fork with anything like dexterity, or to avoid splashing myself with the gravy, while he was standing opposite, staring so hard, and making me blush in the most dreadful manner every time i caught his eye. after watching me into the second chop, he said theres half a pint of ale for you. will you have it now

i thanked him and said, yes. upon which he poured it out of a jug into a large tumbler, and held it up against the light, and made it look beautiful.

my eye he said. it seems a good deal, dont it

it does seem a good deal, i answered with a smile. for it was quite delightful to me, to find him so pleasant. he was a twinklingeyed, pimplefaced man, with his hair standing upright all over his head and as he stood with one arm akimbo, holding up the glass to the light with the other hand, he looked quite friendly.

there was a gentleman here, yesterday, he said  a stout gentleman, by the name of topsawyer  perhaps you know him

no, i said, i dont think 

in breeches and gaiters, broadbrimmed hat, grey coat, speckled choker, said the waiter.

no, i said bashfully, i havent the pleasure 

he came in here, said the waiter, looking at the light through the tumbler, ordered a glass of this ale  would order it  i told him not  drank it, and fell dead. it was too old for him. it oughtnt to be drawn thats the fact.

i was very much shocked to hear of this melancholy accident, and said i thought i had better have some water.

why you see, said the waiter, still looking at the light through the tumbler, with one of his eyes shut up, our people dont like things being ordered and left. it offends em. but ill drink it, if you like. im used to it, and use is everything. i dont think itll hurt me, if i throw my head back, and take it off quick.

shall i

i replied that he would much oblige me by drinking it, if he thought he could do it safely, but by no means otherwise. when he did throw his head back, and take it off quick, i had a horrible fear, i confess, of seeing him meet the fate of the lamented mr.

topsawyer, and fall lifeless on the carpet. but it didnt hurt him. on the contrary, i thought he seemed the fresher for it.

what have we got here he said, putting a fork into my dish.

not chops

chops, i said.

lord bless my soul he exclaimed, i didnt know they were chops.

why, a chops the very thing to take off the bad effects of that beer aint it lucky

so he took a chop by the bone in one hand, and a potato in the other, and ate away with a very good appetite, to my extreme satisfaction. he afterwards took another chop, and another potato and after that, another chop and another potato. when we had done, he brought me a pudding, and having set it before me, seemed to ruminate, and to become absent in his mind for some moments.

hows the pie he said, rousing himself.

its a pudding, i made answer.

pudding he exclaimed. why, bless me, so it is what looking at it nearer. you dont mean to say its a batterpudding

yes, it is indeed.

why, a batterpudding, he said, taking up a tablespoon, is my favourite pudding aint that lucky come on, little un, and lets see wholl get most.

the waiter certainly got most. he entreated me more than once to come in and win, but what with his tablespoon to my teaspoon, his dispatch to my dispatch, and his appetite to my appetite, i was left far behind at the first mouthful, and had no chance with him.

i never saw anyone enjoy a pudding so much, i think and he laughed, when it was all gone, as if his enjoyment of it lasted still.

finding him so very friendly and companionable, it was then that i asked for the pen and ink and paper, to write to peggotty. he not only brought it immediately, but was good enough to look over me while i wrote the letter. when i had finished it, he asked me where i was going to school.

i said, near london, which was all i knew.

oh my eye he said, looking very lowspirited, i am sorry for that.

why i asked him.

oh, lord he said, shaking his head, thats the school where they broke the boys ribs  two ribs  a little boy he was. i should say he was  let me see  how old are you, about

i told him between eight and nine.

thats just his age, he said. he was eight years and six months old when they broke his first rib eight years and eight months old when they broke his second, and did for him.

i could not disguise from myself, or from the waiter, that this was an uncomfortable coincidence, and inquired how it was done. his answer was not cheering to my spirits, for it consisted of two dismal words, with whopping.

the blowing of the coachhorn in the yard was a seasonable diversion, which made me get up and hesitatingly inquire, in the mingled pride and diffidence of having a purse which i took out of my pocket, if there were anything to pay.

theres a sheet of letterpaper, he returned. did you ever buy a sheet of letterpaper

i could not remember that i ever had.

its dear, he said, on account of the duty. threepence. thats the way were taxed in this country. theres nothing else, except the waiter. never mind the ink. i lose by that.

what should you  what should i  how much ought i to  what would it be right to pay the waiter, if you please i stammered, blushing.

if i hadnt a family, and that family hadnt the cowpock, said the waiter, i wouldnt take a sixpence. if i didnt support a aged pairint, and a lovely sister,  here the waiter was greatly agitated  i wouldnt take a farthing. if i had a good place, and was treated well here, i should beg acceptance of a trifle, instead of taking of it. but i live on broken wittles  and i sleep on the coals  here the waiter burst into tears.

i was very much concerned for his misfortunes, and felt that any recognition short of ninepence would be mere brutality and hardness of heart. therefore i gave him one of my three bright shillings, which he received with much humility and veneration, and spun up with his thumb, directly afterwards, to try the goodness of.

it was a little disconcerting to me, to find, when i was being helped up behind the coach, that i was supposed to have eaten all the dinner without any assistance. i discovered this, from overhearing the lady in the bowwindow say to the guard, take care of that child, george, or hell burst and from observing that the womenservants who were about the place came out to look and giggle at me as a young phenomenon. my unfortunate friend the waiter, who had quite recovered his spirits, did not appear to be disturbed by this, but joined in the general admiration without being at all confused. if i had any doubt of him, i suppose this half awakened it but i am inclined to believe that with the simple confidence of a child, and the natural reliance of a child upon superior years qualities i am very sorry any children should prematurely change for worldly wisdom, i had no serious mistrust of him on the whole, even then.

i felt it rather hard, i must own, to be made, without deserving it, the subject of jokes between the coachman and guard as to the coach drawing heavy behind, on account of my sitting there, and as to the greater expediency of my travelling by waggon. the story of my supposed appetite getting wind among the outside passengers, they were merry upon it likewise and asked me whether i was going to be paid for, at school, as two brothers or three, and whether i was contracted for, or went upon the regular terms with other pleasant questions. but the worst of it was, that i knew i should be ashamed to eat anything, when an opportunity offered, and that, after a rather light dinner, i should remain hungry all night  for i had left my cakes behind, at the hotel, in my hurry. my apprehensions were realized. when we stopped for supper i couldnt muster courage to take any, though i should have liked it very much, but sat by the fire and said i didnt want anything. this did not save me from more jokes, either for a huskyvoiced gentleman with a rough face, who had been eating out of a sandwichbox nearly all the way, except when he had been drinking out of a bottle, said i was like a boaconstrictor who took enough at one meal to last him a long time after which, he actually brought a rash out upon himself with boiled beef.

we had started from yarmouth at three oclock in the afternoon, and we were due in london about eight next morning. it was midsummer weather, and the evening was very pleasant. when we passed through a village, i pictured to myself what the insides of the houses were like, and what the inhabitants were about and when boys came running after us, and got up behind and swung there for a little way, i wondered whether their fathers were alive, and whether they were happy at home. i had plenty to think of, therefore, besides my mind running continually on the kind of place i was going to  which was an awful speculation. sometimes, i remember, i resigned myself to thoughts of home and peggotty and to endeavouring, in a confused blind way, to recall how i had felt, and what sort of boy i used to be, before i bit mr. murdstone which i couldnt satisfy myself about by any means, i seemed to have bitten him in such a remote antiquity.

the night was not so pleasant as the evening, for it got chilly and being put between two gentlemen the roughfaced one and another to prevent my tumbling off the coach, i was nearly smothered by their falling asleep, and completely blocking me up.

they squeezed me so hard sometimes, that i could not help crying out, oh if you please  which they didnt like at all, because it woke them. opposite me was an elderly lady in a great fur cloak, who looked in the dark more like a haystack than a lady, she was wrapped up to such a degree. this lady had a basket with her, and she hadnt known what to do with it, for a long time, until she found that on account of my legs being short, it could go underneath me. it cramped and hurt me so, that it made me perfectly miserable but if i moved in the least, and made a glass that was in the basket rattle against something else as it was sure to do, she gave me the cruellest poke with her foot, and said, come, dont you fidget. your bones are young enough, im sure

at last the sun rose, and then my companions seemed to sleep easier. the difficulties under which they had laboured all night, and which had found utterance in the most terrific gasps and snorts, are not to be conceived. as the sun got higher, their sleep became lighter, and so they gradually one by one awoke. i recollect being very much surprised by the feint everybody made, then, of not having been to sleep at all, and by the uncommon indignation with which everyone repelled the charge. i labour under the same kind of astonishment to this day, having invariably observed that of all human weaknesses, the one to which our common nature is the least disposed to confess i cannot imagine why is the weakness of having gone to sleep in a coach.

what an amazing place london was to me when i saw it in the distance, and how i believed all the adventures of all my favourite heroes to be constantly enacting and reenacting there, and how i vaguely made it out in my own mind to be fuller of wonders and wickedness than all the cities of the earth, i need not stop here to relate. we approached it by degrees, and got, in due time, to the inn in the whitechapel district, for which we were bound. i forget whether it was the blue bull, or the blue boar but i know it was the blue something, and that its likeness was painted up on the back of the coach.

the guards eye lighted on me as he was getting down, and he said at the bookingoffice door is there anybody here for a yoongster booked in the name of murdstone, from bloonderstone, sooffolk, to be left till called for

nobody answered.

try copperfield, if you please, sir, said i, looking helplessly down.

is there anybody here for a yoongster, booked in the name of murdstone, from bloonderstone, sooffolk, but owning to the name of copperfield, to be left till called for said the guard. come

is there anybody

no. there was nobody. i looked anxiously around but the inquiry made no impression on any of the bystanders, if i except a man in gaiters, with one eye, who suggested that they had better put a brass collar round my neck, and tie me up in the stable.

a ladder was brought, and i got down after the lady, who was like a haystack not daring to stir, until her basket was removed. the coach was clear of passengers by that time, the luggage was very soon cleared out, the horses had been taken out before the luggage, and now the coach itself was wheeled and backed off by some hostlers, out of the way. still, nobody appeared, to claim the dusty youngster from blunderstone, suffolk.

more solitary than robinson crusoe, who had nobody to look at him and see that he was solitary, i went into the bookingoffice, and, by invitation of the clerk on duty, passed behind the counter, and sat down on the scale at which they weighed the luggage. here, as i sat looking at the parcels, packages, and books, and inhaling the smell of stables ever since associated with that morning, a procession of most tremendous considerations began to march through my mind. supposing nobody should ever fetch me, how long would they consent to keep me there would they keep me long enough to spend seven shillings should i sleep at night in one of those wooden bins, with the other luggage, and wash myself at the pump in the yard in the morning or should i be turned out every night, and expected to come again to be left till called for, when the office opened next day supposing there was no mistake in the case, and mr. murdstone had devised this plan to get rid of me, what should i do if they allowed me to remain there until my seven shillings were spent, i couldnt hope to remain there when i began to starve.

that would obviously be inconvenient and unpleasant to the customers, besides entailing on the blue whateveritwas, the risk of funeral expenses. if i started off at once, and tried to walk back home, how could i ever find my way, how could i ever hope to walk so far, how could i make sure of anyone but peggotty, even if i got back if i found out the nearest proper authorities, and offered myself to go for a soldier, or a sailor, i was such a little fellow that it was most likely they wouldnt take me in.

these thoughts, and a hundred other such thoughts, turned me burning hot, and made me giddy with apprehension and dismay. i was in the height of my fever when a man entered and whispered to the clerk, who presently slanted me off the scale, and pushed me over to him, as if i were weighed, bought, delivered, and paid for.

as i went out of the office, hand in hand with this new acquaintance, i stole a look at him. he was a gaunt, sallow young man, with hollow cheeks, and a chin almost as black as mr.

murdstones but there the likeness ended, for his whiskers were shaved off, and his hair, instead of being glossy, was rusty and dry. he was dressed in a suit of black clothes which were rather rusty and dry too, and rather short in the sleeves and legs and he had a white neckkerchief on, that was not overclean. i did not, and do not, suppose that this neckkerchief was all the linen he wore, but it was all he showed or gave any hint of.

youre the new boy he said.

yes, sir, i said.

i supposed i was. i didnt know.

im one of the masters at salem house, he said.

i made him a bow and felt very much overawed. i was so ashamed to allude to a commonplace thing like my box, to a scholar and a master at salem house, that we had gone some little distance from the yard before i had the hardihood to mention it. we turned back, on my humbly insinuating that it might be useful to me hereafter and he told the clerk that the carrier had instructions to call for it at noon.

if you please, sir, i said, when we had accomplished about the same distance as before, is it far

its down by blackheath, he said.

is that far, sir i diffidently asked.

its a good step, he said. we shall go by the stagecoach.

its about six miles.

i was so faint and tired, that the idea of holding out for six miles more, was too much for me. i took heart to tell him that i had had nothing all night, and that if he would allow me to buy something to eat, i should be very much obliged to him. he appeared surprised at this  i see him stop and look at me now  and after considering for a few moments, said he wanted to call on an old person who lived not far off, and that the best way would be for me to buy some bread, or whatever i liked best that was wholesome, and make my breakfast at her house, where we could get some milk.

accordingly we looked in at a bakers window, and after i had made a series of proposals to buy everything that was bilious in the shop, and he had rejected them one by one, we decided in favour of a nice little loaf of brown bread, which cost me threepence. then, at a grocers shop, we bought an egg and a slice of streaky bacon which still left what i thought a good deal of change, out of the second of the bright shillings, and made me consider london a very cheap place. these provisions laid in, we went on through a great noise and uproar that confused my weary head beyond description, and over a bridge which, no doubt, was london bridge indeed i think he told me so, but i was half asleep, until we came to the poor persons house, which was a part of some almshouses, as i knew by their look, and by an inscription on a stone over the gate which said they were established for twentyfive poor women.

the master at salem house lifted the latch of one of a number of little black doors that were all alike, and had each a little diamondpaned window on one side, and another little diamond paned window above and we went into the little house of one of these poor old women, who was blowing a fire to make a little saucepan boil. on seeing the master enter, the old woman stopped with the bellows on her knee, and said something that i thought sounded like my charley but on seeing me come in too, she got up, and rubbing her hands made a confused sort of half curtsey.

can you cook this young gentlemans breakfast for him, if you please said the master at salem house.

can i said the old woman. yes can i, sure

hows mrs. fibbitson today said the master, looking at another old woman in a large chair by the fire, who was such a bundle of clothes that i feel grateful to this hour for not having sat upon her by mistake.

ah, shes poorly, said the first old woman. its one of her bad days. if the fire was to go out, through any accident, i verily believe shed go out too, and never come to life again.

as they looked at her, i looked at her also. although it was a warm day, she seemed to think of nothing but the fire. i fancied she was jealous even of the saucepan on it and i have reason to know that she took its impressment into the service of boiling my egg and broiling my bacon, in dudgeon for i saw her, with my own discomfited eyes, shake her fist at me once, when those culinary operations were going on, and no one else was looking. the sun streamed in at the little window, but she sat with her own back and the back of the large chair towards it, screening the fire as if she were sedulously keeping it warm, instead of it keeping her warm, and watching it in a most distrustful manner. the completion of the preparations for my breakfast, by relieving the fire, gave her such extreme joy that she laughed aloud  and a very unmelodious laugh she had, i must say.

i sat down to my brown loaf, my egg, and my rasher of bacon, with a basin of milk besides, and made a most delicious meal. while i was yet in the full enjoyment of it, the old woman of the house said to the master have you got your flute with you

yes, he returned.

have a blow at it, said the old woman, coaxingly. do

the master, upon this, put his hand underneath the skirts of his coat, and brought out his flute in three pieces, which he screwed together, and began immediately to play. my impression is, after many years of consideration, that there never can have been anybody in the world who played worse. he made the most dismal sounds i have ever heard produced by any means, natural or artificial. i dont know what the tunes were  if there were such things in the performance at all, which i doubt  but the influence of the strain upon me was, first, to make me think of all my sorrows until i could hardly keep my tears back then to take away my appetite and lastly, to make me so sleepy that i couldnt keep my eyes open.

they begin to close again, and i begin to nod, as the recollection rises fresh upon me. once more the little room, with its open corner cupboard, and its squarebacked chairs, and its angular little staircase leading to the room above, and its three peacocks feathers displayed over the mantelpiece  i remember wondering when i first went in, what that peacock would have thought if he had known what his finery was doomed to come to  fades from before me, and i nod, and sleep. the flute becomes inaudible, the wheels of the coach are heard instead, and i am on my journey. the coach jolts, i wake with a start, and the flute has come back again, and the master at salem house is sitting with his legs crossed, playing it dolefully, while the old woman of the house looks on delighted.

she fades in her turn, and he fades, and all fades, and there is no flute, no master, no salem house, no david copperfield, no anything but heavy sleep.

i dreamed, i thought, that once while he was blowing into this dismal flute, the old woman of the house, who had gone nearer and nearer to him in her ecstatic admiration, leaned over the back of his chair and gave him an affectionate squeeze round the neck, which stopped his playing for a moment. i was in the middle state between sleeping and waking, either then or immediately afterwards for, as he resumed  it was a real fact that he had stopped playing  i saw and heard the same old woman ask mrs. fibbitson if it wasnt delicious meaning the flute, to which mrs. fibbitson replied, ay, ay yes and nodded at the fire to which, i am persuaded, she gave the credit of the whole performance.

when i seemed to have been dozing a long while, the master at salem house unscrewed his flute into the three pieces, put them up as before, and took me away. we found the coach very near at hand, and got upon the roof but i was so dead sleepy, that when we stopped on the road to take up somebody else, they put me inside where there were no passengers, and where i slept profoundly, until i found the coach going at a footpace up a steep hill among green leaves. presently, it stopped, and had come to its destination.

a short walk brought us  i mean the master and me  to salem house, which was enclosed with a high brick wall, and looked very dull. over a door in this wall was a board with salem house upon it and through a grating in this door we were surveyed when we rang the bell by a surly face, which i found, on the door being opened, belonged to a stout man with a bullneck, a wooden leg, overhanging temples, and his hair cut close all round his head.

the new boy, said the master.

the man with the wooden leg eyed me all over  it didnt take long, for there was not much of me  and locked the gate behind us, and took out the key. we were going up to the house, among some dark heavy trees, when he called after my conductor.

hallo

we looked back, and he was standing at the door of a little lodge, where he lived, with a pair of boots in his hand.

here the cobblers been, he said, since youve been out, mr.

mell, and he says he cant mend em any more. he says there aint a bit of the original boot left, and he wonders you expect it.

with these words he threw the boots towards mr. mell, who went back a few paces to pick them up, and looked at them very disconsolately, i was afraid, as we went on together. i observed then, for the first time, that the boots he had on were a good deal the worse for wear, and that his stocking was just breaking out in one place, like a bud.

salem house was a square brick building with wings of a bare and unfurnished appearance. all about it was so very quiet, that i said to mr. mell i supposed the boys were out but he seemed surprised at my not knowing that it was holidaytime. that all the boys were at their several homes. that mr. creakle, the proprietor, was down by the seaside with mrs. and miss creakle and that i was sent in holidaytime as a punishment for my misdoing, all of which he explained to me as we went along.

i gazed upon the schoolroom into which he took me, as the most forlorn and desolate place i had ever seen. i see it now. a long room with three long rows of desks, and six of forms, and bristling all round with pegs for hats and slates. scraps of old copybooks and exercises litter the dirty floor. some silkworms houses, made of the same materials, are scattered over the desks. two miserable little white mice, left behind by their owner, are running up and down in a fusty castle made of pasteboard and wire, looking in all the corners with their red eyes for anything to eat. a bird, in a cage very little bigger than himself, makes a mournful rattle now and then in hopping on his perch, two inches high, or dropping from it but neither sings nor chirps. there is a strange unwholesome smell upon the room, like mildewed corduroys, sweet apples wanting air, and rotten books. there could not well be more ink splashed about it, if it had been roofless from its first construction, and the skies had rained, snowed, hailed, and blown ink through the varying seasons of the year.

mr. mell having left me while he took his irreparable boots upstairs, i went softly to the upper end of the room, observing all this as i crept along. suddenly i came upon a pasteboard placard, beautifully written, which was lying on the desk, and bore these words take care of him. he bites.

i got upon the desk immediately, apprehensive of at least a great dog underneath. but, though i looked all round with anxious eyes, i could see nothing of him. i was still engaged in peering about, when mr. mell came back, and asked me what i did up there i beg your pardon, sir, says i, if you please, im looking for the dog.

dog he says. what dog

isnt it a dog, sir

isnt what a dog

thats to be taken care of, sir that bites.

no, copperfield, says he, gravely, thats not a dog. thats a boy. my instructions are, copperfield, to put this placard on your back. i am sorry to make such a beginning with you, but i must do it. with that he took me down, and tied the placard, which was neatly constructed for the purpose, on my shoulders like a knapsack and wherever i went, afterwards, i had the consolation of carrying it.

what i suffered from that placard, nobody can imagine. whether it was possible for people to see me or not, i always fancied that somebody was reading it. it was no relief to turn round and find nobody for wherever my back was, there i imagined somebody always to be. that cruel man with the wooden leg aggravated my sufferings. he was in authority and if he ever saw me leaning against a tree, or a wall, or the house, he roared out from his lodge door in a stupendous voice, hallo, you sir you copperfield show that badge conspicuous, or ill report you

the playground was a bare gravelled yard, open to all the back of the house and the offices and i knew that the servants read it, and the butcher read it, and the baker read it that everybody, in a word, who came backwards and forwards to the house, of a morning when i was ordered to walk there, read that i was to be taken care of, for i bit, i recollect that i positively began to have a dread of myself, as a kind of wild boy who did bite.

there was an old door in this playground, on which the boys had a custom of carving their names. it was completely covered with such inscriptions. in my dread of the end of the vacation and their coming back, i could not read a boys name, without inquiring in what tone and with what emphasis he would read, take care of him.

he bites. there was one boy  a certain j. steerforth  who cut his name very deep and very often, who, i conceived, would read it in a rather strong voice, and afterwards pull my hair. there was another boy, one tommy traddles, who i dreaded would make game of it, and pretend to be dreadfully frightened of me. there was a third, george demple, who i fancied would sing it. i have looked, a little shrinking creature, at that door, until the owners of all the names  there were fiveandforty of them in the school then, mr. mell said  seemed to send me to coventry by general acclamation, and to cry out, each in his own way, take care of him. he bites

it was the same with the places at the desks and forms. it was the same with the groves of deserted bedsteads i peeped at, on my way to, and when i was in, my own bed. i remember dreaming night after night, of being with my mother as she used to be, or of going to a party at mr. peggottys, or of travelling outside the stagecoach, or of dining again with my unfortunate friend the waiter, and in all these circumstances making people scream and stare, by the unhappy disclosure that i had nothing on but my little nightshirt, and that placard.

in the monotony of my life, and in my constant apprehension of the reopening of the school, it was such an insupportable affliction

i had long tasks every day to do with mr. mell but i did them, there being no mr. and miss murdstone here, and got through them without disgrace. before, and after them, i walked about  supervised, as i have mentioned, by the man with the wooden leg.

how vividly i call to mind the damp about the house, the green cracked flagstones in the court, an old leaky waterbutt, and the discoloured trunks of some of the grim trees, which seemed to have dripped more in the rain than other trees, and to have blown less in the sun at one we dined, mr. mell and i, at the upper end of a long bare diningroom, full of deal tables, and smelling of fat.

then, we had more tasks until tea, which mr. mell drank out of a blue teacup, and i out of a tin pot. all day long, and until seven or eight in the evening, mr. mell, at his own detached desk in the schoolroom, worked hard with pen, ink, ruler, books, and writingpaper, making out the bills as i found for last halfyear. when he had put up his things for the night he took out his flute, and blew at it, until i almost thought he would gradually blow his whole being into the large hole at the top, and ooze away at the keys.

i picture my small self in the dimlylighted rooms, sitting with my head upon my hand, listening to the doleful performance of mr.

mell, and conning tomorrows lessons. i picture myself with my books shut up, still listening to the doleful performance of mr.

mell, and listening through it to what used to be at home, and to the blowing of the wind on yarmouth flats, and feeling very sad and solitary. i picture myself going up to bed, among the unused rooms, and sitting on my bedside crying for a comfortable word from peggotty. i picture myself coming downstairs in the morning, and looking through a long ghastly gash of a staircase window at the schoolbell hanging on the top of an outhouse with a weathercock above it and dreading the time when it shall ring j.

steerforth and the rest to work which is only second, in my foreboding apprehensions, to the time when the man with the wooden leg shall unlock the rusty gate to give admission to the awful mr.

creakle. i cannot think i was a very dangerous character in any of these aspects, but in all of them i carried the same warning on my back.

mr. mell never said much to me, but he was never harsh to me. i suppose we were company to each other, without talking. i forgot to mention that he would talk to himself sometimes, and grin, and clench his fist, and grind his teeth, and pull his hair in an unaccountable manner. but he had these peculiarities and at first they frightened me, though i soon got used to them.



chapter 

i enlarge my circle of acquaintance

i had led this life about a month, when the man with the wooden leg began to stump about with a mop and a bucket of water, from which i inferred that preparations were making to receive mr. creakle and the boys. i was not mistaken for the mop came into the schoolroom before long, and turned out mr. mell and me, who lived where we could, and got on how we could, for some days, during which we were always in the way of two or three young women, who had rarely shown themselves before, and were so continually in the midst of dust that i sneezed almost as much as if salem house had been a great snuffbox.

one day i was informed by mr. mell that mr. creakle would be home that evening. in the evening, after tea, i heard that he was come.

before bedtime, i was fetched by the man with the wooden leg to appear before him.

mr. creakles part of the house was a good deal more comfortable than ours, and he had a snug bit of garden that looked pleasant after the dusty playground, which was such a desert in miniature, that i thought no one but a camel, or a dromedary, could have felt at home in it. it seemed to me a bold thing even to take notice that the passage looked comfortable, as i went on my way, trembling, to mr. creakles presence which so abashed me, when i was ushered into it, that i hardly saw mrs. creakle or miss creakle who were both there, in the parlour, or anything but mr. creakle, a stout gentleman with a bunch of watchchain and seals, in an armchair, with a tumbler and bottle beside him.

so said mr. creakle. this is the young gentleman whose teeth are to be filed turn him round.

the woodenlegged man turned me about so as to exhibit the placard and having afforded time for a full survey of it, turned me about again, with my face to mr. creakle, and posted himself at mr.

creakles side. mr. creakles face was fiery, and his eyes were small, and deep in his head he had thick veins in his forehead, a little nose, and a large chin. he was bald on the top of his head and had some thin wetlooking hair that was just turning grey, brushed across each temple, so that the two sides interlaced on his forehead. but the circumstance about him which impressed me most, was, that he had no voice, but spoke in a whisper. the exertion this cost him, or the consciousness of talking in that feeble way, made his angry face so much more angry, and his thick veins so much thicker, when he spoke, that i am not surprised, on looking back, at this peculiarity striking me as his chief one.

now, said mr. creakle. whats the report of this boy

theres nothing against him yet, returned the man with the wooden leg. there has been no opportunity.

i thought mr. creakle was disappointed. i thought mrs. and miss creakle at whom i now glanced for the first time, and who were, both, thin and quiet were not disappointed.

come here, sir said mr. creakle, beckoning to me.

come here said the man with the wooden leg, repeating the gesture.

i have the happiness of knowing your fatherinlaw, whispered mr.

creakle, taking me by the ear and a worthy man he is, and a man of a strong character. he knows me, and i know him. do you know me hey said mr. creakle, pinching my ear with ferocious playfulness.

not yet, sir, i said, flinching with the pain.

not yet hey repeated mr. creakle. but you will soon. hey

you will soon. hey repeated the man with the wooden leg. i afterwards found that he generally acted, with his strong voice, as mr. creakles interpreter to the boys.

i was very much frightened, and said, i hoped so, if he pleased.

i felt, all this while, as if my ear were blazing he pinched it so hard.

ill tell you what i am, whispered mr. creakle, letting it go at last, with a screw at parting that brought the water into my eyes.

im a tartar.

a tartar, said the man with the wooden leg.

when i say ill do a thing, i do it, said mr. creakle and when i say i will have a thing done, i will have it done.

 will have a thing done, i will have it done, repeated the man with the wooden leg.

i am a determined character, said mr. creakle. thats what i am. i do my duty. thats what i do. my flesh and blood  he looked at mrs. creakle as he said this  when it rises against me, is not my flesh and blood. i discard it. has that fellow  to the man with the wooden leg been here again

no, was the answer.

no, said mr. creakle. he knows better. he knows me. let him keep away. i say let him keep away, said mr. creakle, striking his hand upon the table, and looking at mrs. creakle, for he knows me. now you have begun to know me too, my young friend, and you may go. take him away.

i was very glad to be ordered away, for mrs. and miss creakle were both wiping their eyes, and i felt as uncomfortable for them as i did for myself. but i had a petition on my mind which concerned me so nearly, that i couldnt help saying, though i wondered at my own courage if you please, sir 

mr. creakle whispered, hah whats this and bent his eyes upon me, as if he would have burnt me up with them.

if you please, sir, i faltered, if i might be allowed i am very sorry indeed, sir, for what i did to take this writing off, before the boys come back 

whether mr. creakle was in earnest, or whether he only did it to frighten me, i dont know, but he made a burst out of his chair, before which i precipitately retreated, without waiting for the escort of the man with the wooden leg, and never once stopped until i reached my own bedroom, where, finding i was not pursued, i went to bed, as it was time, and lay quaking, for a couple of hours.

next morning mr. sharp came back. mr. sharp was the first master, and superior to mr. mell. mr. mell took his meals with the boys, but mr. sharp dined and supped at mr. creakles table. he was a limp, delicatelooking gentleman, i thought, with a good deal of nose, and a way of carrying his head on one side, as if it were a little too heavy for him. his hair was very smooth and wavy but i was informed by the very first boy who came back that it was a wig a secondhand one he said, and that mr. sharp went out every saturday afternoon to get it curled.

it was no other than tommy traddles who gave me this piece of intelligence. he was the first boy who returned. he introduced himself by informing me that i should find his name on the righthand corner of the gate, over the topbolt upon that i said, traddles to which he replied, the same, and then he asked me for a full account of myself and family.

it was a happy circumstance for me that traddles came back first.

he enjoyed my placard so much, that he saved me from the embarrassment of either disclosure or concealment, by presenting me to every other boy who came back, great or small, immediately on his arrival, in this form of introduction, look here heres a game happily, too, the greater part of the boys came back lowspirited, and were not so boisterous at my expense as i had expected. some of them certainly did dance about me like wild indians, and the greater part could not resist the temptation of pretending that i was a dog, and patting and soothing me, lest i should bite, and saying, lie down, sir and calling me towzer.

this was naturally confusing, among so many strangers, and cost me some tears, but on the whole it was much better than i had anticipated.

i was not considered as being formally received into the school, however, until j. steerforth arrived. before this boy, who was reputed to be a great scholar, and was very goodlooking, and at least halfadozen years my senior, i was carried as before a magistrate. he inquired, under a shed in the playground, into the particulars of my punishment, and was pleased to express his opinion that it was a jolly shame for which i became bound to him ever afterwards.

what money have you got, copperfield he said, walking aside with me when he had disposed of my affair in these terms. i told him seven shillings.

you had better give it to me to take care of, he said. at least, you can if you like. you neednt if you dont like.

i hastened to comply with his friendly suggestion, and opening peggottys purse, turned it upside down into his hand.

do you want to spend anything now he asked me.

no thank you, i replied.

you can, if you like, you know, said steerforth. say the word.

no, thank you, sir, i repeated.

perhaps youd like to spend a couple of shillings or so, in a bottle of currant wine by and by, up in the bedroom said steerforth. you belong to my bedroom, i find.

it certainly had not occurred to me before, but i said, yes, i should like that.

very good, said steerforth. youll be glad to spend another shilling or so, in almond cakes, i dare say

i said, yes, i should like that, too.

and another shilling or so in biscuits, and another in fruit, eh said steerforth. i say, young copperfield, youre going it

i smiled because he smiled, but i was a little troubled in my mind, too.

well said steerforth. we must make it stretch as far as we can thats all. ill do the best in my power for you. i can go out when i like, and ill smuggle the prog in. with these words he put the money in his pocket, and kindly told me not to make myself uneasy he would take care it should be all right.

he was as good as his word, if that were all right which i had a secret misgiving was nearly all wrong  for i feared it was a waste of my mothers two halfcrowns  though i had preserved the piece of paper they were wrapped in which was a precious saving. when we went upstairs to bed, he produced the whole seven shillings worth, and laid it out on my bed in the moonlight, saying there you are, young copperfield, and a royal spread youve got.

i couldnt think of doing the honours of the feast, at my time of life, while he was by my hand shook at the very thought of it. i begged him to do me the favour of presiding and my request being seconded by the other boys who were in that room, he acceded to it, and sat upon my pillow, handing round the viands  with perfect fairness, i must say  and dispensing the currant wine in a little glass without a foot, which was his own property. as to me, i sat on his left hand, and the rest were grouped about us, on the nearest beds and on the floor.

how well i recollect our sitting there, talking in whispers or their talking, and my respectfully listening, i ought rather to say the moonlight falling a little way into the room, through the window, painting a pale window on the floor, and the greater part of us in shadow, except when steerforth dipped a match into a phosphorusbox, when he wanted to look for anything on the board, and shed a blue glare over us that was gone directly a certain mysterious feeling, consequent on the darkness, the secrecy of the revel, and the whisper in which everything was said, steals over me again, and i listen to all they tell me with a vague feeling of solemnity and awe, which makes me glad that they are all so near, and frightens me though i feign to laugh when traddles pretends to see a ghost in the corner.

i heard all kinds of things about the school and all belonging to it. i heard that mr. creakle had not preferred his claim to being a tartar without reason that he was the sternest and most severe of masters that he laid about him, right and left, every day of his life, charging in among the boys like a trooper, and slashing away, unmercifully. that he knew nothing himself, but the art of slashing, being more ignorant j. steerforth said than the lowest boy in the school that he had been, a good many years ago, a small hopdealer in the borough, and had taken to the schooling business after being bankrupt in hops, and making away with mrs. creakles money. with a good deal more of that sort, which i wondered how they knew.

i heard that the man with the wooden leg, whose name was tungay, was an obstinate barbarian who had formerly assisted in the hop business, but had come into the scholastic line with mr. creakle, in consequence, as was supposed among the boys, of his having broken his leg in mr. creakles service, and having done a deal of dishonest work for him, and knowing his secrets. i heard that with the single exception of mr. creakle, tungay considered the whole establishment, masters and boys, as his natural enemies, and that the only delight of his life was to be sour and malicious. i heard that mr. creakle had a son, who had not been tungays friend, and who, assisting in the school, had once held some remonstrance with his father on an occasion when its discipline was very cruelly exercised, and was supposed, besides, to have protested against his fathers usage of his mother. i heard that mr. creakle had turned him out of doors, in consequence and that mrs. and miss creakle had been in a sad way, ever since.

but the greatest wonder that i heard of mr. creakle was, there being one boy in the school on whom he never ventured to lay a hand, and that boy being j. steerforth. steerforth himself confirmed this when it was stated, and said that he should like to begin to see him do it. on being asked by a mild boy not me how he would proceed if he did begin to see him do it, he dipped a match into his phosphorusbox on purpose to shed a glare over his reply, and said he would commence by knocking him down with a blow on the forehead from the sevenandsixpenny inkbottle that was always on the mantelpiece. we sat in the dark for some time, breathless.

i heard that mr. sharp and mr. mell were both supposed to be wretchedly paid and that when there was hot and cold meat for dinner at mr. creakles table, mr. sharp was always expected to say he preferred cold which was again corroborated by j. steerforth, the only parlourboarder. i heard that mr. sharps wig didnt fit him and that he neednt be so bounceable  somebody else said bumptious  about it, because his own red hair was very plainly to be seen behind.

i heard that one boy, who was a coalmerchants son, came as a setoff against the coalbill, and was called, on that account, exchange or barter  a name selected from the arithmetic book as expressing this arrangement. i heard that the table beer was a robbery of parents, and the pudding an imposition. i heard that miss creakle was regarded by the school in general as being in love with steerforth and i am sure, as i sat in the dark, thinking of his nice voice, and his fine face, and his easy manner, and his curling hair, i thought it very likely. i heard that mr. mell was not a bad sort of fellow, but hadnt a sixpence to bless himself with and that there was no doubt that old mrs. mell, his mother, was as poor as job. i thought of my breakfast then, and what had sounded like my charley but i was, i am glad to remember, as mute as a mouse about it.

the hearing of all this, and a good deal more, outlasted the banquet some time. the greater part of the guests had gone to bed as soon as the eating and drinking were over and we, who had remained whispering and listening halfundressed, at last betook ourselves to bed, too.

good night, young copperfield, said steerforth. ill take care of you.

youre very kind, i gratefully returned. i am very much obliged to you.

you havent got a sister, have you said steerforth, yawning.

no, i answered.

thats a pity, said steerforth. if you had had one, i should think she would have been a pretty, timid, little, brighteyed sort of girl. i should have liked to know her. good night, young copperfield.

good night, sir, i replied.

i thought of him very much after i went to bed, and raised myself, i recollect, to look at him where he lay in the moonlight, with his handsome face turned up, and his head reclining easily on his arm.

he was a person of great power in my eyes that was, of course, the reason of my mind running on him. no veiled future dimly glanced upon him in the moonbeams. there was no shadowy picture of his footsteps, in the garden that i dreamed of walking in all night.



chapter 

my first half at salem house

school began in earnest next day. a profound impression was made upon me, i remember, by the roar of voices in the schoolroom suddenly becoming hushed as death when mr. creakle entered after breakfast, and stood in the doorway looking round upon us like a giant in a storybook surveying his captives.

tungay stood at mr. creakles elbow. he had no occasion, i thought, to cry out silence so ferociously, for the boys were all struck speechless and motionless.

mr. creakle was seen to speak, and tungay was heard, to this effect.

now, boys, this is a new half. take care what youre about, in this new half. come fresh up to the lessons, i advise you, for i come fresh up to the punishment. i wont flinch. it will be of no use your rubbing yourselves you wont rub the marks out that i shall give you. now get to work, every boy

when this dreadful exordium was over, and tungay had stumped out again, mr. creakle came to where i sat, and told me that if i were famous for biting, he was famous for biting, too. he then showed me the cane, and asked me what i thought of that, for a tooth was it a sharp tooth, hey was it a double tooth, hey had it a deep prong, hey did it bite, hey did it bite at every question he gave me a fleshy cut with it that made me writhe so i was very soon made free of salem house as steerforth said, and was very soon in tears also.

not that i mean to say these were special marks of distinction, which only i received. on the contrary, a large majority of the boys especially the smaller ones were visited with similar instances of notice, as mr. creakle made the round of the schoolroom. half the establishment was writhing and crying, before the days work began and how much of it had writhed and cried before the days work was over, i am really afraid to recollect, lest i should seem to exaggerate.

i should think there never can have been a man who enjoyed his profession more than mr. creakle did. he had a delight in cutting at the boys, which was like the satisfaction of a craving appetite.

i am confident that he couldnt resist a chubby boy, especially that there was a fascination in such a subject, which made him restless in his mind, until he had scored and marked him for the day. i was chubby myself, and ought to know. i am sure when i think of the fellow now, my blood rises against him with the disinterested indignation i should feel if i could have known all about him without having ever been in his power but it rises hotly, because i know him to have been an incapable brute, who had no more right to be possessed of the great trust he held, than to be lord high admiral, or commanderinchief  in either of which capacities it is probable that he would have done infinitely less mischief.

miserable little propitiators of a remorseless idol, how abject we were to him what a launch in life i think it now, on looking back, to be so mean and servile to a man of such parts and pretensions

here i sit at the desk again, watching his eye  humbly watching his eye, as he rules a cipheringbook for another victim whose hands have just been flattened by that identical ruler, and who is trying to wipe the sting out with a pockethandkerchief. i have plenty to do. i dont watch his eye in idleness, but because i am morbidly attracted to it, in a dread desire to know what he will do next, and whether it will be my turn to suffer, or somebody elses.

a lane of small boys beyond me, with the same interest in his eye, watch it too. i think he knows it, though he pretends he dont.

he makes dreadful mouths as he rules the cipheringbook and now he throws his eye sideways down our lane, and we all droop over our books and tremble. a moment afterwards we are again eyeing him.

an unhappy culprit, found guilty of imperfect exercise, approaches at his command. the culprit falters excuses, and professes a determination to do better tomorrow. mr. creakle cuts a joke before he beats him, and we laugh at it,  miserable little dogs, we laugh, with our visages as white as ashes, and our hearts sinking into our boots.

here i sit at the desk again, on a drowsy summer afternoon. a buzz and hum go up around me, as if the boys were so many bluebottles.

a cloggy sensation of the lukewarm fat of meat is upon me we dined an hour or two ago, and my head is as heavy as so much lead. i would give the world to go to sleep. i sit with my eye on mr.

creakle, blinking at him like a young owl when sleep overpowers me for a minute, he still looms through my slumber, ruling those cipheringbooks, until he softly comes behind me and wakes me to plainer perception of him, with a red ridge across my back.

here i am in the playground, with my eye still fascinated by him, though i cant see him. the window at a little distance from which i know he is having his dinner, stands for him, and i eye that instead. if he shows his face near it, mine assumes an imploring and submissive expression. if he looks out through the glass, the boldest boy steerforth excepted stops in the middle of a shout or yell, and becomes contemplative. one day, traddles the most unfortunate boy in the world breaks that window accidentally, with a ball. i shudder at this moment with the tremendous sensation of seeing it done, and feeling that the ball has bounded on to mr.

creakles sacred head.

poor traddles in a tight skyblue suit that made his arms and legs like german sausages, or rolypoly puddings, he was the merriest and most miserable of all the boys. he was always being caned  i think he was caned every day that halfyear, except one holiday monday when he was only rulerd on both hands  and was always going to write to his uncle about it, and never did. after laying his head on the desk for a little while, he would cheer up, somehow, begin to laugh again, and draw skeletons all over his slate, before his eyes were dry. i used at first to wonder what comfort traddles found in drawing skeletons and for some time looked upon him as a sort of hermit, who reminded himself by those symbols of mortality that caning couldnt last for ever. but i believe he only did it because they were easy, and didnt want any features.

he was very honourable, traddles was, and held it as a solemn duty in the boys to stand by one another. he suffered for this on several occasions and particularly once, when steerforth laughed in church, and the beadle thought it was traddles, and took him out. i see him now, going away in custody, despised by the congregation. he never said who was the real offender, though he smarted for it next day, and was imprisoned so many hours that he came forth with a whole churchyardfull of skeletons swarming all over his latin dictionary. but he had his reward. steerforth said there was nothing of the sneak in traddles, and we all felt that to be the highest praise. for my part, i could have gone through a good deal though i was much less brave than traddles, and nothing like so old to have won such a recompense.

to see steerforth walk to church before us, arminarm with miss creakle, was one of the great sights of my life. i didnt think miss creakle equal to little emly in point of beauty, and i didnt love her i didnt dare but i thought her a young lady of extraordinary attractions, and in point of gentility not to be surpassed. when steerforth, in white trousers, carried her parasol for her, i felt proud to know him and believed that she could not choose but adore him with all her heart. mr. sharp and mr. mell were both notable personages in my eyes but steerforth was to them what the sun was to two stars.

steerforth continued his protection of me, and proved a very useful friend since nobody dared to annoy one whom he honoured with his countenance. he couldnt  or at all events he didnt  defend me from mr. creakle, who was very severe with me but whenever i had been treated worse than usual, he always told me that i wanted a little of his pluck, and that he wouldnt have stood it himself which i felt he intended for encouragement, and considered to be very kind of him. there was one advantage, and only one that i know of, in mr. creakles severity. he found my placard in his way when he came up or down behind the form on which i sat, and wanted to make a cut at me in passing for this reason it was soon taken off, and i saw it no more.

an accidental circumstance cemented the intimacy between steerforth and me, in a manner that inspired me with great pride and satisfaction, though it sometimes led to inconvenience. it happened on one occasion, when he was doing me the honour of talking to me in the playground, that i hazarded the observation that something or somebody  i forget what now  was like something or somebody in peregrine pickle. he said nothing at the time but when i was going to bed at night, asked me if i had got that book

i told him no, and explained how it was that i had read it, and all those other books of which i have made mention.

and do you recollect them steerforth said.

oh yes, i replied i had a good memory, and i believed i recollected them very well.

then i tell you what, young copperfield, said steerforth, you shall tell em to me. i cant get to sleep very early at night, and i generally wake rather early in the morning. well go over em one after another. well make some regular arabian nights of it.

i felt extremely flattered by this arrangement, and we commenced carrying it into execution that very evening. what ravages i committed on my favourite authors in the course of my interpretation of them, i am not in a condition to say, and should be very unwilling to know but i had a profound faith in them, and i had, to the best of my belief, a simple, earnest manner of narrating what i did narrate and these qualities went a long way.

the drawback was, that i was often sleepy at night, or out of spirits and indisposed to resume the story and then it was rather hard work, and it must be done for to disappoint or to displease steerforth was of course out of the question. in the morning, too, when i felt weary, and should have enjoyed another hours repose very much, it was a tiresome thing to be roused, like the sultana scheherazade, and forced into a long story before the gettingup bell rang but steerforth was resolute and as he explained to me, in return, my sums and exercises, and anything in my tasks that was too hard for me, i was no loser by the transaction. let me do myself justice, however. i was moved by no interested or selfish motive, nor was i moved by fear of him. i admired and loved him, and his approval was return enough. it was so precious to me that i look back on these trifles, now, with an aching heart.

steerforth was considerate, too and showed his consideration, in one particular instance, in an unflinching manner that was a little tantalizing, i suspect, to poor traddles and the rest. peggottys promised letter  what a comfortable letter it was  arrived before the half was many weeks old and with it a cake in a perfect nest of oranges, and two bottles of cowslip wine. this treasure, as in duty bound, i laid at the feet of steerforth, and begged him to dispense.

now, ill tell you what, young copperfield, said he the wine shall be kept to wet your whistle when you are storytelling.

i blushed at the idea, and begged him, in my modesty, not to think of it. but he said he had observed i was sometimes hoarse  a little roopy was his exact expression  and it should be, every drop, devoted to the purpose he had mentioned. accordingly, it was locked up in his box, and drawn off by himself in a phial, and administered to me through a piece of quill in the cork, when i was supposed to be in want of a restorative. sometimes, to make it a more sovereign specific, he was so kind as to squeeze orange juice into it, or to stir it up with ginger, or dissolve a peppermint drop in it and although i cannot assert that the flavour was improved by these experiments, or that it was exactly the compound one would have chosen for a stomachic, the last thing at night and the first thing in the morning, i drank it gratefully and was very sensible of his attention.

we seem, to me, to have been months over peregrine, and months more over the other stories. the institution never flagged for want of a story, i am certain and the wine lasted out almost as well as the matter. poor traddles  i never think of that boy but with a strange disposition to laugh, and with tears in my eyes  was a sort of chorus, in general and affected to be convulsed with mirth at the comic parts, and to be overcome with fear when there was any passage of an alarming character in the narrative. this rather put me out, very often. it was a great jest of his, i recollect, to pretend that he couldnt keep his teeth from chattering, whenever mention was made of an alguazill in connexion with the adventures of gil blas and i remember that when gil blas met the captain of the robbers in madrid, this unlucky joker counterfeited such an ague of terror, that he was overheard by mr. creakle, who was prowling about the passage, and handsomely flogged for disorderly conduct in the bedroom.

whatever i had within me that was romantic and dreamy, was encouraged by so much storytelling in the dark and in that respect the pursuit may not have been very profitable to me. but the being cherished as a kind of plaything in my room, and the consciousness that this accomplishment of mine was bruited about among the boys, and attracted a good deal of notice to me though i was the youngest there, stimulated me to exertion. in a school carried on by sheer cruelty, whether it is presided over by a dunce or not, there is not likely to be much learnt. i believe our boys were, generally, as ignorant a set as any schoolboys in existence they were too much troubled and knocked about to learn they could no more do that to advantage, than any one can do anything to advantage in a life of constant misfortune, torment, and worry.

but my little vanity, and steerforths help, urged me on somehow and without saving me from much, if anything, in the way of punishment, made me, for the time i was there, an exception to the general body, insomuch that i did steadily pick up some crumbs of knowledge.

in this i was much assisted by mr. mell, who had a liking for me that i am grateful to remember. it always gave me pain to observe that steerforth treated him with systematic disparagement, and seldom lost an occasion of wounding his feelings, or inducing others to do so. this troubled me the more for a long time, because i had soon told steerforth, from whom i could no more keep such a secret, than i could keep a cake or any other tangible possession, about the two old women mr. mell had taken me to see and i was always afraid that steerforth would let it out, and twit him with it.

we little thought, any one of us, i dare say, when i ate my breakfast that first morning, and went to sleep under the shadow of the peacocks feathers to the sound of the flute, what consequences would come of the introduction into those almshouses of my insignificant person. but the visit had its unforeseen consequences and of a serious sort, too, in their way.

one day when mr. creakle kept the house from indisposition, which naturally diffused a lively joy through the school, there was a good deal of noise in the course of the mornings work. the great relief and satisfaction experienced by the boys made them difficult to manage and though the dreaded tungay brought his wooden leg in twice or thrice, and took notes of the principal offenders names, no great impression was made by it, as they were pretty sure of getting into trouble tomorrow, do what they would, and thought it wise, no doubt, to enjoy themselves today.

it was, properly, a halfholiday being saturday. but as the noise in the playground would have disturbed mr. creakle, and the weather was not favourable for going out walking, we were ordered into school in the afternoon, and set some lighter tasks than usual, which were made for the occasion. it was the day of the week on which mr. sharp went out to get his wig curled so mr. mell, who always did the drudgery, whatever it was, kept school by himself.

if i could associate the idea of a bull or a bear with anyone so mild as mr. mell, i should think of him, in connexion with that afternoon when the uproar was at its height, as of one of those animals, baited by a thousand dogs. i recall him bending his aching head, supported on his bony hand, over the book on his desk, and wretchedly endeavouring to get on with his tiresome work, amidst an uproar that might have made the speaker of the house of commons giddy. boys started in and out of their places, playing at puss in the corner with other boys there were laughing boys, singing boys, talking boys, dancing boys, howling boys boys shuffled with their feet, boys whirled about him, grinning, making faces, mimicking him behind his back and before his eyes mimicking his poverty, his boots, his coat, his mother, everything belonging to him that they should have had consideration for.

silence cried mr. mell, suddenly rising up, and striking his desk with the book. what does this mean its impossible to bear it. its maddening. how can you do it to me, boys

it was my book that he struck his desk with and as i stood beside him, following his eye as it glanced round the room, i saw the boys all stop, some suddenly surprised, some half afraid, and some sorry perhaps.

steerforths place was at the bottom of the school, at the opposite end of the long room. he was lounging with his back against the wall, and his hands in his pockets, and looked at mr. mell with his mouth shut up as if he were whistling, when mr. mell looked at him.

silence, mr. steerforth said mr. mell.

silence yourself, said steerforth, turning red. whom are you talking to

sit down, said mr. mell.

sit down yourself, said steerforth, and mind your business.

there was a titter, and some applause but mr. mell was so white, that silence immediately succeeded and one boy, who had darted out behind him to imitate his mother again, changed his mind, and pretended to want a pen mended.

if you think, steerforth, said mr. mell, that i am not acquainted with the power you can establish over any mind here  he laid his hand, without considering what he did as i supposed, upon my head  or that i have not observed you, within a few minutes, urging your juniors on to every sort of outrage against me, you are mistaken.

i dont give myself the trouble of thinking at all about you, said steerforth, coolly so im not mistaken, as it happens.

and when you make use of your position of favouritism here, sir, pursued mr. mell, with his lip trembling very much, to insult a gentleman 

a what  where is he said steerforth.

here somebody cried out, shame, j. steerforth too bad it was traddles whom mr. mell instantly discomfited by bidding him hold his tongue.  to insult one who is not fortunate in life, sir, and who never gave you the least offence, and the many reasons for not insulting whom you are old enough and wise enough to understand, said mr.

mell, with his lips trembling more and more, you commit a mean and base action. you can sit down or stand up as you please, sir.

copperfield, go on.

young copperfield, said steerforth, coming forward up the room, stop a bit. i tell you what, mr. mell, once for all. when you take the liberty of calling me mean or base, or anything of that sort, you are an impudent beggar. you are always a beggar, you know but when you do that, you are an impudent beggar.

i am not clear whether he was going to strike mr. mell, or mr. mell was going to strike him, or there was any such intention on either side. i saw a rigidity come upon the whole school as if they had been turned into stone, and found mr. creakle in the midst of us, with tungay at his side, and mrs. and miss creakle looking in at the door as if they were frightened. mr. mell, with his elbows on his desk and his face in his hands, sat, for some moments, quite still.

mr. mell, said mr. creakle, shaking him by the arm and his whisper was so audible now, that tungay felt it unnecessary to repeat his words you have not forgotten yourself, i hope

no, sir, no, returned the master, showing his face, and shaking his head, and rubbing his hands in great agitation. no, sir. no.

i have remembered myself, i  no, mr. creakle, i have not forgotten myself, i  i have remembered myself, sir. i  i  could wish you had remembered me a little sooner, mr. creakle. it  it  would have been more kind, sir, more just, sir. it would have saved me something, sir.

mr. creakle, looking hard at mr. mell, put his hand on tungays shoulder, and got his feet upon the form close by, and sat upon the desk. after still looking hard at mr. mell from his throne, as he shook his head, and rubbed his hands, and remained in the same state of agitation, mr. creakle turned to steerforth, and said now, sir, as he dont condescend to tell me, what is this

steerforth evaded the question for a little while looking in scorn and anger on his opponent, and remaining silent. i could not help thinking even in that interval, i remember, what a noble fellow he was in appearance, and how homely and plain mr. mell looked opposed to him.

what did he mean by talking about favourites, then said steerforth at length.

favourites repeated mr. creakle, with the veins in his forehead swelling quickly. who talked about favourites

he did, said steerforth.

and pray, what did you mean by that, sir demanded mr. creakle, turning angrily on his assistant.

i meant, mr. creakle, he returned in a low voice, as i said that no pupil had a right to avail himself of his position of favouritism to degrade me.

to degrade you said mr. creakle. my stars but give me leave to ask you, mr. whatsyourname and here mr. creakle folded his arms, cane and all, upon his chest, and made such a knot of his brows that his little eyes were hardly visible below them whether, when you talk about favourites, you showed proper respect to me to me, sir, said mr. creakle, darting his head at him suddenly, and drawing it back again, the principal of this establishment, and your employer.

it was not judicious, sir, i am willing to admit, said mr. mell.

i should not have done so, if i had been cool.

here steerforth struck in.

then he said i was mean, and then he said i was base, and then i called him a beggar. if i had been cool, perhaps i shouldnt have called him a beggar. but i did, and i am ready to take the consequences of it.

without considering, perhaps, whether there were any consequences to be taken, i felt quite in a glow at this gallant speech. it made an impression on the boys too, for there was a low stir among them, though no one spoke a word.

i am surprised, steerforth  although your candour does you honour, said mr. creakle, does you honour, certainly  i am surprised, steerforth, i must say, that you should attach such an epithet to any person employed and paid in salem house, sir.

steerforth gave a short laugh.

thats not an answer, sir, said mr. creakle, to my remark. i expect more than that from you, steerforth.

if mr. mell looked homely, in my eyes, before the handsome boy, it would be quite impossible to say how homely mr. creakle looked.

let him deny it, said steerforth.

deny that he is a beggar, steerforth cried mr. creakle. why, where does he go abegging

if he is not a beggar himself, his near relations one, said steerforth. its all the same.

he glanced at me, and mr. mells hand gently patted me upon the shoulder. i looked up with a flush upon my face and remorse in my heart, but mr. mells eyes were fixed on steerforth. he continued to pat me kindly on the shoulder, but he looked at him.

since you expect me, mr. creakle, to justify myself, said steerforth, and to say what i mean,  what i have to say is, that his mother lives on charity in an almshouse.

mr. mell still looked at him, and still patted me kindly on the shoulder, and said to himself, in a whisper, if i heard right yes, i thought so.

mr. creakle turned to his assistant, with a severe frown and laboured politeness now, you hear what this gentleman says, mr. mell. have the goodness, if you please, to set him right before the assembled school.

he is right, sir, without correction, returned mr. mell, in the midst of a dead silence what he has said is true.

be so good then as declare publicly, will you, said mr. creakle, putting his head on one side, and rolling his eyes round the school, whether it ever came to my knowledge until this moment

i believe not directly, he returned.

why, you know not, said mr. creakle. dont you, man

i apprehend you never supposed my worldly circumstances to be very good, replied the assistant. you know what my position is, and always has been, here.

i apprehend, if you come to that, said mr. creakle, with his veins swelling again bigger than ever, that youve been in a wrong position altogether, and mistook this for a charity school. mr.

mell, well part, if you please. the sooner the better.

there is no time, answered mr. mell, rising, like the present.

sir, to you said mr. creakle.

i take my leave of you, mr. creakle, and all of you, said mr.

mell, glancing round the room, and again patting me gently on the shoulders. james steerforth, the best wish i can leave you is that you may come to be ashamed of what you have done today. at present i would prefer to see you anything rather than a friend, to me, or to anyone in whom i feel an interest.

once more he laid his hand upon my shoulder and then taking his flute and a few books from his desk, and leaving the key in it for his successor, he went out of the school, with his property under his arm. mr. creakle then made a speech, through tungay, in which he thanked steerforth for asserting though perhaps too warmly the independence and respectability of salem house and which he wound up by shaking hands with steerforth, while we gave three cheers  i did not quite know what for, but i supposed for steerforth, and so joined in them ardently, though i felt miserable. mr. creakle then caned tommy traddles for being discovered in tears, instead of cheers, on account of mr. mells departure and went back to his sofa, or his bed, or wherever he had come from.

we were left to ourselves now, and looked very blank, i recollect, on one another. for myself, i felt so much selfreproach and contrition for my part in what had happened, that nothing would have enabled me to keep back my tears but the fear that steerforth, who often looked at me, i saw, might think it unfriendly  or, i should rather say, considering our relative ages, and the feeling with which i regarded him, undutiful  if i showed the emotion which distressed me. he was very angry with traddles, and said he was glad he had caught it.

poor traddles, who had passed the stage of lying with his head upon the desk, and was relieving himself as usual with a burst of skeletons, said he didnt care. mr. mell was illused.

who has illused him, you girl said steerforth.

why, you have, returned traddles.

what have i done said steerforth.

what have you done retorted traddles. hurt his feelings, and lost him his situation.

his feelings repeated steerforth disdainfully. his feelings will soon get the better of it, ill be bound. his feelings are not like yours, miss traddles. as to his situation  which was a precious one, wasnt it  do you suppose i am not going to write home, and take care that he gets some money polly

we thought this intention very noble in steerforth, whose mother was a widow, and rich, and would do almost anything, it was said, that he asked her. we were all extremely glad to see traddles so put down, and exalted steerforth to the skies especially when he told us, as he condescended to do, that what he had done had been done expressly for us, and for our cause and that he had conferred a great boon upon us by unselfishly doing it.

but i must say that when i was going on with a story in the dark that night, mr. mells old flute seemed more than once to sound mournfully in my ears and that when at last steerforth was tired, and i lay down in my bed, i fancied it playing so sorrowfully somewhere, that i was quite wretched.

i soon forgot him in the contemplation of steerforth, who, in an easy amateur way, and without any book he seemed to me to know everything by heart, took some of his classes until a new master was found. the new master came from a grammar school and before he entered on his duties, dined in the parlour one day, to be introduced to steerforth. steerforth approved of him highly, and told us he was a brick. without exactly understanding what learned distinction was meant by this, i respected him greatly for it, and had no doubt whatever of his superior knowledge though he never took the pains with me  not that i was anybody  that mr. mell had taken.

there was only one other event in this halfyear, out of the daily schoollife, that made an impression upon me which still survives.

it survives for many reasons.

one afternoon, when we were all harassed into a state of dire confusion, and mr. creakle was laying about him dreadfully, tungay came in, and called out in his usual strong way visitors for copperfield

a few words were interchanged between him and mr. creakle, as, who the visitors were, and what room they were to be shown into and then i, who had, according to custom, stood up on the announcement being made, and felt quite faint with astonishment, was told to go by the back stairs and get a clean frill on, before i repaired to the diningroom. these orders i obeyed, in such a flutter and hurry of my young spirits as i had never known before and when i got to the parlour door, and the thought came into my head that it might be my mother  i had only thought of mr. or miss murdstone until then  i drew back my hand from the lock, and stopped to have a sob before i went in.

at first i saw nobody but feeling a pressure against the door, i looked round it, and there, to my amazement, were mr. peggotty and ham, ducking at me with their hats, and squeezing one another against the wall. i could not help laughing but it was much more in the pleasure of seeing them, than at the appearance they made.

we shook hands in a very cordial way and i laughed and laughed, until i pulled out my pockethandkerchief and wiped my eyes.

mr. peggotty who never shut his mouth once, i remember, during the visit showed great concern when he saw me do this, and nudged ham to say something.

cheer up, masr davy bor said ham, in his simpering way. why, how you have growed

am i grown i said, drying my eyes. i was not crying at anything in particular that i know of but somehow it made me cry, to see old friends.

growed, masr davy bor aint he growed said ham.

aint he growed said mr. peggotty.

they made me laugh again by laughing at each other, and then we all three laughed until i was in danger of crying again.

do you know how mama is, mr. peggotty i said. and how my dear, dear, old peggotty is

oncommon, said mr. peggotty.

and little emly, and mrs. gummidge

on  common, said mr. peggotty.

there was a silence. mr. peggotty, to relieve it, took two prodigious lobsters, and an enormous crab, and a large canvas bag of shrimps, out of his pockets, and piled them up in hams arms.

you see, said mr. peggotty, knowing as you was partial to a little relish with your wittles when you was along with us, we took the liberty. the old mawther biled em, she did. mrs. gummidge biled em. yes, said mr. peggotty, slowly, who i thought appeared to stick to the subject on account of having no other subject ready, mrs. gummidge, i do assure you, she biled em.

i expressed my thanks and mr. peggotty, after looking at ham, who stood smiling sheepishly over the shellfish, without making any attempt to help him, said we come, you see, the wind and tide making in our favour, in one of our yarmouth lugs to gravesen. my sister she wrote to me the name of this here place, and wrote to me as if ever i chanced to come to gravesen, i was to come over and inquire for masr davy and give her dooty, humbly wishing him well and reporting of the famly as they was oncommon toebesure. little emly, you see, shell write to my sister when i go back, as i see you and as you was similarly oncommon, and so we make it quite a merrygorounder.

i was obliged to consider a little before i understood what mr.

peggotty meant by this figure, expressive of a complete circle of intelligence. i then thanked him heartily and said, with a consciousness of reddening, that i supposed little emly was altered too, since we used to pick up shells and pebbles on the beach shes getting to be a woman, thats wot shes getting to be, said mr. peggotty. ask him.

he meant ham, who beamed with delight and assent over the bag of shrimps.

her pretty face said mr. peggotty, with his own shining like a light.

her learning said ham.

her writing said mr. peggotty. why its as black as jet and so large it is, you might see it anywheres.

it was perfectly delightful to behold with what enthusiasm mr.

peggotty became inspired when he thought of his little favourite.

he stands before me again, his bluff hairy face irradiating with a joyful love and pride, for which i can find no description. his honest eyes fire up, and sparkle, as if their depths were stirred by something bright. his broad chest heaves with pleasure. his strong loose hands clench themselves, in his earnestness and he emphasizes what he says with a right arm that shows, in my pigmy view, like a sledgehammer.

ham was quite as earnest as he. i dare say they would have said much more about her, if they had not been abashed by the unexpected coming in of steerforth, who, seeing me in a corner speaking with two strangers, stopped in a song he was singing, and said i didnt know you were here, young copperfield for it was not the usual visiting room and crossed by us on his way out.

i am not sure whether it was in the pride of having such a friend as steerforth, or in the desire to explain to him how i came to have such a friend as mr. peggotty, that i called to him as he was going away. but i said, modestly  good heaven, how it all comes back to me this long time afterwards  dont go, steerforth, if you please. these are two yarmouth boatmen  very kind, good people  who are relations of my nurse, and have come from gravesend to see me.

aye, aye said steerforth, returning. i am glad to see them.

how are you both

there was an ease in his manner  a gay and light manner it was, but not swaggering  which i still believe to have borne a kind of enchantment with it. i still believe him, in virtue of this carriage, his animal spirits, his delightful voice, his handsome face and figure, and, for aught i know, of some inborn power of attraction besides which i think a few people possess, to have carried a spell with him to which it was a natural weakness to yield, and which not many persons could withstand. i could not but see how pleased they were with him, and how they seemed to open their hearts to him in a moment.

you must let them know at home, if you please, mr. peggotty, i said, when that letter is sent, that mr. steerforth is very kind to me, and that i dont know what i should ever do here without him.

nonsense said steerforth, laughing. you mustnt tell them anything of the sort.

and if mr. steerforth ever comes into norfolk or suffolk, mr.

peggotty, i said, while i am there, you may depend upon it i shall bring him to yarmouth, if he will let me, to see your house.

you never saw such a good house, steerforth. its made out of a boat

made out of a boat, is it said steerforth. its the right sort of a house for such a thoroughbuilt boatman.

so tis, sir, so tis, sir, said ham, grinning. youre right, young genlmn masr davy bor, genlmns right. a thoroughbuilt boatman hor, hor thats what he is, too

mr. peggotty was no less pleased than his nephew, though his modesty forbade him to claim a personal compliment so vociferously.

well, sir, he said, bowing and chuckling, and tucking in the ends of his neckerchief at his breast i thankee, sir, i thankee i do my endeavours in my line of life, sir.

the best of men can do no more, mr. peggotty, said steerforth.

he had got his name already.

ill pound it, its wot you do yourself, sir, said mr. peggotty, shaking his head, and wot you do well  right well i thankee, sir. im obleeged to you, sir, for your welcoming manner of me.

im rough, sir, but im ready  least ways, i hope im ready, you unnerstand. my house aint much for to see, sir, but its hearty at your service if ever you should come along with masr davy to see it. im a reglar dodman, i am, said mr. peggotty, by which he meant snail, and this was in allusion to his being slow to go, for he had attempted to go after every sentence, and had somehow or other come back again but i wish you both well, and i wish you happy

ham echoed this sentiment, and we parted with them in the heartiest manner. i was almost tempted that evening to tell steerforth about pretty little emly, but i was too timid of mentioning her name, and too much afraid of his laughing at me. i remember that i thought a good deal, and in an uneasy sort of way, about mr.

peggotty having said that she was getting on to be a woman but i decided that was nonsense.

we transported the shellfish, or the relish as mr. peggotty had modestly called it, up into our room unobserved, and made a great supper that evening. but traddles couldnt get happily out of it.

he was too unfortunate even to come through a supper like anybody else. he was taken ill in the night  quite prostrate he was  in consequence of crab and after being drugged with black draughts and blue pills, to an extent which demple whose father was a doctor said was enough to undermine a horses constitution, received a caning and six chapters of greek testament for refusing to confess.

the rest of the halfyear is a jumble in my recollection of the daily strife and struggle of our lives of the waning summer and the changing season of the frosty mornings when we were rung out of bed, and the cold, cold smell of the dark nights when we were rung into bed again of the evening schoolroom dimly lighted and indifferently warmed, and the morning schoolroom which was nothing but a great shiveringmachine of the alternation of boiled beef with roast beef, and boiled mutton with roast mutton of clods of breadandbutter, dogseared lessonbooks, cracked slates, tearblotted copybooks, canings, rulerings, haircuttings, rainy sundays, suetpuddings, and a dirty atmosphere of ink, surrounding all.

i well remember though, how the distant idea of the holidays, after seeming for an immense time to be a stationary speck, began to come towards us, and to grow and grow. how from counting months, we came to weeks, and then to days and how i then began to be afraid that i should not be sent for and when i learnt from steerforth that i had been sent for, and was certainly to go home, had dim forebodings that i might break my leg first. how the breakingup day changed its place fast, at last, from the week after next to next week, this week, the day after tomorrow, tomorrow, today, tonight  when i was inside the yarmouth mail, and going home.

i had many a broken sleep inside the yarmouth mail, and many an incoherent dream of all these things. but when i awoke at intervals, the ground outside the window was not the playground of salem house, and the sound in my ears was not the sound of mr.

creakle giving it to traddles, but the sound of the coachman touching up the horses.



chapter 

my holidays. especially one happy afternoon

when we arrived before day at the inn where the mail stopped, which was not the inn where my friend the waiter lived, i was shown up to a nice little bedroom, with dolphin painted on the door. very cold i was, i know, notwithstanding the hot tea they had given me before a large fire downstairs and very glad i was to turn into the dolphins bed, pull the dolphins blankets round my head, and go to sleep.

mr. barkis the carrier was to call for me in the morning at nine oclock. i got up at eight, a little giddy from the shortness of my nights rest, and was ready for him before the appointed time.

he received me exactly as if not five minutes had elapsed since we were last together, and i had only been into the hotel to get change for sixpence, or something of that sort.

as soon as i and my box were in the cart, and the carrier seated, the lazy horse walked away with us all at his accustomed pace.

you look very well, mr. barkis, i said, thinking he would like to know it.

mr. barkis rubbed his cheek with his cuff, and then looked at his cuff as if he expected to find some of the bloom upon it but made no other acknowledgement of the compliment.

i gave your message, mr. barkis, i said i wrote to peggotty.

ah said mr. barkis.

mr. barkis seemed gruff, and answered drily.

wasnt it right, mr. barkis i asked, after a little hesitation.

why, no, said mr. barkis.

not the message

the message was right enough, perhaps, said mr. barkis but it come to an end there.

not understanding what he meant, i repeated inquisitively came to an end, mr. barkis

nothing come of it, he explained, looking at me sideways. no answer.

there was an answer expected, was there, mr. barkis said i, opening my eyes. for this was a new light to me.

when a man says hes willin, said mr. barkis, turning his glance slowly on me again, its as much as to say, that mans awaitin for a answer.

well, mr. barkis

well, said mr. barkis, carrying his eyes back to his horses ears that mans been awaitin for a answer ever since.

have you told her so, mr. barkis

no  no, growled mr. barkis, reflecting about it. i aint got no call to go and tell her so. i never said six words to her myself, i aint agoin to tell her so.

would you like me to do it, mr. barkis said i, doubtfully.

you might tell her, if you would, said mr. barkis, with another slow look at me, that barkis was awaitin for a answer. says you  what name is it

her name

ah said mr. barkis, with a nod of his head.

peggotty.

chrisen name or natral name said mr. barkis.

oh, its not her christian name. her christian name is clara.

is it though said mr. barkis.

he seemed to find an immense fund of reflection in this circumstance, and sat pondering and inwardly whistling for some time.

well he resumed at length. says you, peggotty barkis is waitin for a answer. says she, perhaps, answer to what says you, to what i told you. what is that says she. barkis is willin, says you.

this extremely artful suggestion mr. barkis accompanied with a nudge of his elbow that gave me quite a stitch in my side. after that, he slouched over his horse in his usual manner and made no other reference to the subject except, half an hour afterwards, taking a piece of chalk from his pocket, and writing up, inside the tilt of the cart, clara peggotty  apparently as a private memorandum.

ah, what a strange feeling it was to be going home when it was not home, and to find that every object i looked at, reminded me of the happy old home, which was like a dream i could never dream again

the days when my mother and i and peggotty were all in all to one another, and there was no one to come between us, rose up before me so sorrowfully on the road, that i am not sure i was glad to be there  not sure but that i would rather have remained away, and forgotten it in steerforths company. but there i was and soon i was at our house, where the bare old elmtrees wrung their many hands in the bleak wintry air, and shreds of the old rooksnests drifted away upon the wind.

the carrier put my box down at the gardengate, and left me. i walked along the path towards the house, glancing at the windows, and fearing at every step to see mr. murdstone or miss murdstone lowering out of one of them. no face appeared, however and being come to the house, and knowing how to open the door, before dark, without knocking, i went in with a quiet, timid step.

god knows how infantine the memory may have been, that was awakened within me by the sound of my mothers voice in the old parlour, when i set foot in the hall. she was singing in a low tone. i think i must have lain in her arms, and heard her singing so to me when i was but a baby. the strain was new to me, and yet it was so old that it filled my heart brimfull like a friend come back from a long absence.

i believed, from the solitary and thoughtful way in which my mother murmured her song, that she was alone. and i went softly into the room. she was sitting by the fire, suckling an infant, whose tiny hand she held against her neck. her eyes were looking down upon its face, and she sat singing to it. i was so far right, that she had no other companion.

i spoke to her, and she started, and cried out. but seeing me, she called me her dear davy, her own boy and coming half across the room to meet me, kneeled down upon the ground and kissed me, and laid my head down on her bosom near the little creature that was nestling there, and put its hand to my lips.

i wish i had died. i wish i had died then, with that feeling in my heart i should have been more fit for heaven than i ever have been since.

he is your brother, said my mother, fondling me. davy, my pretty boy my poor child then she kissed me more and more, and clasped me round the neck. this she was doing when peggotty came running in, and bounced down on the ground beside us, and went mad about us both for a quarter of an hour.

it seemed that i had not been expected so soon, the carrier being much before his usual time. it seemed, too, that mr. and miss murdstone had gone out upon a visit in the neighbourhood, and would not return before night. i had never hoped for this. i had never thought it possible that we three could be together undisturbed, once more and i felt, for the time, as if the old days were come back.

we dined together by the fireside. peggotty was in attendance to wait upon us, but my mother wouldnt let her do it, and made her dine with us. i had my own old plate, with a brown view of a manofwar in full sail upon it, which peggotty had hoarded somewhere all the time i had been away, and would not have had broken, she said, for a hundred pounds. i had my own old mug with david on it, and my own old little knife and fork that wouldnt cut.

while we were at table, i thought it a favourable occasion to tell peggotty about mr. barkis, who, before i had finished what i had to tell her, began to laugh, and throw her apron over her face.

peggotty, said my mother. whats the matter

peggotty only laughed the more, and held her apron tight over her face when my mother tried to pull it away, and sat as if her head were in a bag.

what are you doing, you stupid creature said my mother, laughing.

oh, drat the man cried peggotty. he wants to marry me.

it would be a very good match for you wouldnt it said my mother.

oh i dont know, said peggotty. dont ask me. i wouldnt have him if he was made of gold. nor i wouldnt have anybody.

then, why dont you tell him so, you ridiculous thing said my mother.

tell him so, retorted peggotty, looking out of her apron. he has never said a word to me about it. he knows better. if he was to make so bold as say a word to me, i should slap his face.

her own was as red as ever i saw it, or any other face, i think but she only covered it again, for a few moments at a time, when she was taken with a violent fit of laughter and after two or three of those attacks, went on with her dinner.

i remarked that my mother, though she smiled when peggotty looked at her, became more serious and thoughtful. i had seen at first that she was changed. her face was very pretty still, but it looked careworn, and too delicate and her hand was so thin and white that it seemed to me to be almost transparent. but the change to which i now refer was superadded to this it was in her manner, which became anxious and fluttered. at last she said, putting out her hand, and laying it affectionately on the hand of her old servant, peggotty, dear, you are not going to be married

me, maam returned peggotty, staring. lord bless you, no

not just yet said my mother, tenderly.

never cried peggotty.

my mother took her hand, and said dont leave me, peggotty. stay with me. it will not be for long, perhaps. what should i ever do without you

me leave you, my precious cried peggotty. not for all the world and his wife. why, whats put that in your silly little head  for peggotty had been used of old to talk to my mother sometimes like a child.

but my mother made no answer, except to thank her, and peggotty went running on in her own fashion.

me leave you i think i see myself. peggotty go away from you

i should like to catch her at it no, no, no, said peggotty, shaking her head, and folding her arms not she, my dear. it isnt that there aint some cats that would be well enough pleased if she did, but they shant be pleased. they shall be aggravated.

ill stay with you till i am a cross cranky old woman. and when im too deaf, and too lame, and too blind, and too mumbly for want of teeth, to be of any use at all, even to be found fault with, than i shall go to my davy, and ask him to take me in.

and, peggotty, says i, i shall be glad to see you, and ill make you as welcome as a queen.

bless your dear heart cried peggotty. i know you will and she kissed me beforehand, in grateful acknowledgement of my hospitality. after that, she covered her head up with her apron again and had another laugh about mr. barkis. after that, she took the baby out of its little cradle, and nursed it. after that, she cleared the dinner table after that, came in with another cap on, and her workbox, and the yardmeasure, and the bit of waxcandle, all just the same as ever.

we sat round the fire, and talked delightfully. i told them what a hard master mr. creakle was, and they pitied me very much. i told them what a fine fellow steerforth was, and what a patron of mine, and peggotty said she would walk a score of miles to see him.

i took the little baby in my arms when it was awake, and nursed it lovingly. when it was asleep again, i crept close to my mothers side according to my old custom, broken now a long time, and sat with my arms embracing her waist, and my little red cheek on her shoulder, and once more felt her beautiful hair drooping over me  like an angels wing as i used to think, i recollect  and was very happy indeed.

while i sat thus, looking at the fire, and seeing pictures in the redhot coals, i almost believed that i had never been away that mr. and miss murdstone were such pictures, and would vanish when the fire got low and that there was nothing real in all that i remembered, save my mother, peggotty, and i.

peggotty darned away at a stocking as long as she could see, and then sat with it drawn on her left hand like a glove, and her needle in her right, ready to take another stitch whenever there was a blaze. i cannot conceive whose stockings they can have been that peggotty was always darning, or where such an unfailing supply of stockings in want of darning can have come from. from my earliest infancy she seems to have been always employed in that class of needlework, and never by any chance in any other.

i wonder, said peggotty, who was sometimes seized with a fit of wondering on some most unexpected topic, whats become of davys greataunt

lor, peggotty observed my mother, rousing herself from a reverie, what nonsense you talk

well, but i really do wonder, maam, said peggotty.

what can have put such a person in your head inquired my mother.

is there nobody else in the world to come there

i dont know how it is, said peggotty, unless its on account of being stupid, but my head never can pick and choose its people.

they come and they go, and they dont come and they dont go, just as they like. i wonder whats become of her

how absurd you are, peggotty returned my mother. one would suppose you wanted a second visit from her.

lord forbid cried peggotty.

well then, dont talk about such uncomfortable things, theres a good soul, said my mother. miss betsey is shut up in her cottage by the sea, no doubt, and will remain there. at all events, she is not likely ever to trouble us again.

no mused peggotty. no, that aint likely at all.  i wonder, if she was to die, whether shed leave davy anything

good gracious me, peggotty, returned my mother, what a nonsensical woman you are when you know that she took offence at the poor dear boys ever being born at all.

i suppose she wouldnt be inclined to forgive him now, hinted peggotty.

why should she be inclined to forgive him now said my mother, rather sharply.

now that hes got a brother, i mean, said peggotty.

my mother immediately began to cry, and wondered how peggotty dared to say such a thing.

as if this poor little innocent in its cradle had ever done any harm to you or anybody else, you jealous thing said she. you had much better go and marry mr. barkis, the carrier. why dont you

i should make miss murdstone happy, if i was to, said peggotty.

what a bad disposition you have, peggotty returned my mother.

you are as jealous of miss murdstone as it is possible for a ridiculous creature to be. you want to keep the keys yourself, and give out all the things, i suppose i shouldnt be surprised if you did. when you know that she only does it out of kindness and the best intentions you know she does, peggotty  you know it well.

peggotty muttered something to the effect of bother the best intentions and something else to the effect that there was a little too much of the best intentions going on.

i know what you mean, you cross thing, said my mother. i understand you, peggotty, perfectly. you know i do, and i wonder you dont colour up like fire. but one point at a time. miss murdstone is the point now, peggotty, and you shant escape from it. havent you heard her say, over and over again, that she thinks i am too thoughtless and too  a  a 

pretty, suggested peggotty.

well, returned my mother, half laughing, and if she is so silly as to say so, can i be blamed for it

no one says you can, said peggotty.

no, i should hope not, indeed returned my mother. havent you heard her say, over and over again, that on this account she wished to spare me a great deal of trouble, which she thinks i am not suited for, and which i really dont know myself that i am suited for and isnt she up early and late, and going to and fro continually  and doesnt she do all sorts of things, and grope into all sorts of places, coalholes and pantries and i dont know where, that cant be very agreeable  and do you mean to insinuate that there is not a sort of devotion in that

i dont insinuate at all, said peggotty.

you do, peggotty, returned my mother. you never do anything else, except your work. you are always insinuating. you revel in it. and when you talk of mr. murdstones good intentions 

i never talked of em, said peggotty.

no, peggotty, returned my mother, but you insinuated. thats what i told you just now. thats the worst of you. you will insinuate. i said, at the moment, that i understood you, and you see i did. when you talk of mr. murdstones good intentions, and pretend to slight them for i dont believe you really do, in your heart, peggotty, you must be as well convinced as i am how good they are, and how they actuate him in everything. if he seems to have been at all stern with a certain person, peggotty  you understand, and so i am sure does davy, that i am not alluding to anybody present  it is solely because he is satisfied that it is for a certain persons benefit. he naturally loves a certain person, on my account and acts solely for a certain persons good.

he is better able to judge of it than i am for i very well know that i am a weak, light, girlish creature, and that he is a firm, grave, serious man. and he takes, said my mother, with the tears which were engendered in her affectionate nature, stealing down her face, he takes great pains with me and i ought to be very thankful to him, and very submissive to him even in my thoughts and when i am not, peggotty, i worry and condemn myself, and feel doubtful of my own heart, and dont know what to do.

peggotty sat with her chin on the foot of the stocking, looking silently at the fire.

there, peggotty, said my mother, changing her tone, dont let us fall out with one another, for i couldnt bear it. you are my true friend, i know, if i have any in the world. when i call you a ridiculous creature, or a vexatious thing, or anything of that sort, peggotty, i only mean that you are my true friend, and always have been, ever since the night when mr. copperfield first brought me home here, and you came out to the gate to meet me.

peggotty was not slow to respond, and ratify the treaty of friendship by giving me one of her best hugs. i think i had some glimpses of the real character of this conversation at the time but i am sure, now, that the good creature originated it, and took her part in it, merely that my mother might comfort herself with the little contradictory summary in which she had indulged. the design was efficacious for i remember that my mother seemed more at ease during the rest of the evening, and that peggotty observed her less.

when we had had our tea, and the ashes were thrown up, and the candles snuffed, i read peggotty a chapter out of the crocodile book, in remembrance of old times  she took it out of her pocket

i dont know whether she had kept it there ever since  and then we talked about salem house, which brought me round again to steerforth, who was my great subject. we were very happy and that evening, as the last of its race, and destined evermore to close that volume of my life, will never pass out of my memory.

it was almost ten oclock before we heard the sound of wheels. we all got up then and my mother said hurriedly that, as it was so late, and mr. and miss murdstone approved of early hours for young people, perhaps i had better go to bed. i kissed her, and went upstairs with my candle directly, before they came in. it appeared to my childish fancy, as i ascended to the bedroom where i had been imprisoned, that they brought a cold blast of air into the house which blew away the old familiar feeling like a feather.

i felt uncomfortable about going down to breakfast in the morning, as i had never set eyes on mr. murdstone since the day when i committed my memorable offence. however, as it must be done, i went down, after two or three false starts halfway, and as many runs back on tiptoe to my own room, and presented myself in the parlour.

he was standing before the fire with his back to it, while miss murdstone made the tea. he looked at me steadily as i entered, but made no sign of recognition whatever.

i went up to him, after a moment of confusion, and said i beg your pardon, sir. i am very sorry for what i did, and i hope you will forgive me.

i am glad to hear you are sorry, david, he replied.

the hand he gave me was the hand i had bitten. i could not restrain my eye from resting for an instant on a red spot upon it but it was not so red as i turned, when i met that sinister expression in his face.

how do you do, maam i said to miss murdstone.

ah, dear me sighed miss murdstone, giving me the teacaddy scoop instead of her fingers. how long are the holidays

a month, maam.

counting from when

from today, maam.

oh said miss murdstone. then heres one day off.

she kept a calendar of the holidays in this way, and every morning checked a day off in exactly the same manner. she did it gloomily until she came to ten, but when she got into two figures she became more hopeful, and, as the time advanced, even jocular.

it was on this very first day that i had the misfortune to throw her, though she was not subject to such weakness in general, into a state of violent consternation. i came into the room where she and my mother were sitting and the baby who was only a few weeks old being on my mothers lap, i took it very carefully in my arms.

suddenly miss murdstone gave such a scream that i all but dropped it.

my dear jane cried my mother.

good heavens, clara, do you see exclaimed miss murdstone.

see what, my dear jane said my mother where

hes got it cried miss murdstone. the boy has got the baby

she was limp with horror but stiffened herself to make a dart at me, and take it out of my arms. then, she turned faint and was so very ill that they were obliged to give her cherry brandy. i was solemnly interdicted by her, on her recovery, from touching my brother any more on any pretence whatever and my poor mother, who, i could see, wished otherwise, meekly confirmed the interdict, by saying no doubt you are right, my dear jane.

on another occasion, when we three were together, this same dear baby  it was truly dear to me, for our mothers sake  was the innocent occasion of miss murdstones going into a passion. my mother, who had been looking at its eyes as it lay upon her lap, said davy come here and looked at mine.

i saw miss murdstone lay her beads down.

i declare, said my mother, gently, they are exactly alike. i suppose they are mine. i think they are the colour of mine. but they are wonderfully alike.

what are you talking about, clara said miss murdstone.

my dear jane, faltered my mother, a little abashed by the harsh tone of this inquiry, i find that the babys eyes and davys are exactly alike.

clara said miss murdstone, rising angrily, you are a positive fool sometimes.

my dear jane, remonstrated my mother.

a positive fool, said miss murdstone. who else could compare my brothers baby with your boy they are not at all alike. they are exactly unlike. they are utterly dissimilar in all respects. i hope they will ever remain so. i will not sit here, and hear such comparisons made. with that she stalked out, and made the door bang after her.

in short, i was not a favourite with miss murdstone. in short, i was not a favourite there with anybody, not even with myself for those who did like me could not show it, and those who did not, showed it so plainly that i had a sensitive consciousness of always appearing constrained, boorish, and dull.

i felt that i made them as uncomfortable as they made me. if i came into the room where they were, and they were talking together and my mother seemed cheerful, an anxious cloud would steal over her face from the moment of my entrance. if mr. murdstone were in his best humour, i checked him. if miss murdstone were in her worst, i intensified it. i had perception enough to know that my mother was the victim always that she was afraid to speak to me or to be kind to me, lest she should give them some offence by her manner of doing so, and receive a lecture afterwards that she was not only ceaselessly afraid of her own offending, but of my offending, and uneasily watched their looks if i only moved.

therefore i resolved to keep myself as much out of their way as i could and many a wintry hour did i hear the church clock strike, when i was sitting in my cheerless bedroom, wrapped in my little greatcoat, poring over a book.

in the evening, sometimes, i went and sat with peggotty in the kitchen. there i was comfortable, and not afraid of being myself.

but neither of these resources was approved of in the parlour. the tormenting humour which was dominant there stopped them both. i was still held to be necessary to my poor mothers training, and, as one of her trials, could not be suffered to absent myself.

david, said mr. murdstone, one day after dinner when i was going to leave the room as usual i am sorry to observe that you are of a sullen disposition.

as sulky as a bear said miss murdstone.

i stood still, and hung my head.

now, david, said mr. murdstone, a sullen obdurate disposition is, of all tempers, the worst.

and the boys is, of all such dispositions that ever i have seen, remarked his sister, the most confirmed and stubborn. i think, my dear clara, even you must observe it

i beg your pardon, my dear jane, said my mother, but are you quite sure  i am certain youll excuse me, my dear jane  that you understand davy

i should be somewhat ashamed of myself, clara, returned miss murdstone, if i could not understand the boy, or any boy. i dont profess to be profound but i do lay claim to common sense.

no doubt, my dear jane, returned my mother, your understanding is very vigorous 

oh dear, no pray dont say that, clara, interposed miss murdstone, angrily.

but i am sure it is, resumed my mother and everybody knows it is. i profit so much by it myself, in many ways  at least i ought to  that no one can be more convinced of it than myself and therefore i speak with great diffidence, my dear jane, i assure you.

well say i dont understand the boy, clara, returned miss murdstone, arranging the little fetters on her wrists. well agree, if you please, that i dont understand him at all. he is much too deep for me. but perhaps my brothers penetration may enable him to have some insight into his character. and i believe my brother was speaking on the subject when we  not very decently  interrupted him.

i think, clara, said mr. murdstone, in a low grave voice, that there may be better and more dispassionate judges of such a question than you.

edward, replied my mother, timidly, you are a far better judge of all questions than i pretend to be. both you and jane are. i only said 

you only said something weak and inconsiderate, he replied. try not to do it again, my dear clara, and keep a watch upon yourself.

my mothers lips moved, as if she answered yes, my dear edward, but she said nothing aloud.

i was sorry, david, i remarked, said mr. murdstone, turning his head and his eyes stiffly towards me, to observe that you are of a sullen disposition. this is not a character that i can suffer to develop itself beneath my eyes without an effort at improvement.

you must endeavour, sir, to change it. we must endeavour to change it for you.

i beg your pardon, sir, i faltered. i have never meant to be sullen since i came back.

dont take refuge in a lie, sir he returned so fiercely, that i saw my mother involuntarily put out her trembling hand as if to interpose between us. you have withdrawn yourself in your sullenness to your own room. you have kept your own room when you ought to have been here. you know now, once for all, that i require you to be here, and not there. further, that i require you to bring obedience here. you know me, david. i will have it done.

miss murdstone gave a hoarse chuckle.

i will have a respectful, prompt, and ready bearing towards myself, he continued, and towards jane murdstone, and towards your mother. i will not have this room shunned as if it were infected, at the pleasure of a child. sit down.

he ordered me like a dog, and i obeyed like a dog.

one thing more, he said. i observe that you have an attachment to low and common company. you are not to associate with servants.

the kitchen will not improve you, in the many respects in which you need improvement. of the woman who abets you, i say nothing  since you, clara, addressing my mother in a lower voice, from old associations and longestablished fancies, have a weakness respecting her which is not yet overcome.

a most unaccountable delusion it is cried miss murdstone.

i only say, he resumed, addressing me, that i disapprove of your preferring such company as mistress peggotty, and that it is to be abandoned. now, david, you understand me, and you know what will be the consequence if you fail to obey me to the letter.

i knew well  better perhaps than he thought, as far as my poor mother was concerned  and i obeyed him to the letter. i retreated to my own room no more i took refuge with peggotty no more but sat wearily in the parlour day after day, looking forward to night, and bedtime.

what irksome constraint i underwent, sitting in the same attitude hours upon hours, afraid to move an arm or a leg lest miss murdstone should complain as she did on the least pretence of my restlessness, and afraid to move an eye lest she should light on some look of dislike or scrutiny that would find new cause for complaint in mine what intolerable dulness to sit listening to the ticking of the clock and watching miss murdstones little shiny steel beads as she strung them and wondering whether she would ever be married, and if so, to what sort of unhappy man and counting the divisions in the moulding of the chimneypiece and wandering away, with my eyes, to the ceiling, among the curls and corkscrews in the paper on the wall

what walks i took alone, down muddy lanes, in the bad winter weather, carrying that parlour, and mr. and miss murdstone in it, everywhere a monstrous load that i was obliged to bear, a daymare that there was no possibility of breaking in, a weight that brooded on my wits, and blunted them

what meals i had in silence and embarrassment, always feeling that there were a knife and fork too many, and that mine an appetite too many, and that mine a plate and chair too many, and those mine a somebody too many, and that i

what evenings, when the candles came, and i was expected to employ myself, but, not daring to read an entertaining book, pored over some hardheaded, harderhearted treatise on arithmetic when the tables of weights and measures set themselves to tunes, as rule britannia, or away with melancholy when they wouldnt stand still to be learnt, but would go threading my grandmothers needle through my unfortunate head, in at one ear and out at the other

what yawns and dozes i lapsed into, in spite of all my care what starts i came out of concealed sleeps with what answers i never got, to little observations that i rarely made what a blank space i seemed, which everybody overlooked, and yet was in everybodys way what a heavy relief it was to hear miss murdstone hail the first stroke of nine at night, and order me to bed

thus the holidays lagged away, until the morning came when miss murdstone said heres the last day off and gave me the closing cup of tea of the vacation.

i was not sorry to go. i had lapsed into a stupid state but i was recovering a little and looking forward to steerforth, albeit mr.

creakle loomed behind him. again mr. barkis appeared at the gate, and again miss murdstone in her warning voice, said clara when my mother bent over me, to bid me farewell.

i kissed her, and my baby brother, and was very sorry then but not sorry to go away, for the gulf between us was there, and the parting was there, every day. and it is not so much the embrace she gave me, that lives in my mind, though it was as fervent as could be, as what followed the embrace.

i was in the carriers cart when i heard her calling to me. i looked out, and she stood at the gardengate alone, holding her baby up in her arms for me to see. it was cold still weather and not a hair of her head, nor a fold of her dress, was stirred, as she looked intently at me, holding up her child.

so i lost her. so i saw her afterwards, in my sleep at school  a silent presence near my bed  looking at me with the same intent face  holding up her baby in her arms.



chapter 

i have a memorable birthday

i pass over all that happened at school, until the anniversary of my birthday came round in march. except that steerforth was more to be admired than ever, i remember nothing. he was going away at the end of the halfyear, if not sooner, and was more spirited and independent than before in my eyes, and therefore more engaging than before but beyond this i remember nothing. the great remembrance by which that time is marked in my mind, seems to have swallowed up all lesser recollections, and to exist alone.

it is even difficult for me to believe that there was a gap of full two months between my return to salem house and the arrival of that birthday. i can only understand that the fact was so, because i know it must have been so otherwise i should feel convinced that there was no interval, and that the one occasion trod upon the others heels.

how well i recollect the kind of day it was i smell the fog that hung about the place i see the hoar frost, ghostly, through it i feel my rimy hair fall clammy on my cheek i look along the dim perspective of the schoolroom, with a sputtering candle here and there to light up the foggy morning, and the breath of the boys wreathing and smoking in the raw cold as they blow upon their fingers, and tap their feet upon the floor. it was after breakfast, and we had been summoned in from the playground, when mr. sharp entered and said david copperfield is to go into the parlour.

i expected a hamper from peggotty, and brightened at the order.

some of the boys about me put in their claim not to be forgotten in the distribution of the good things, as i got out of my seat with great alacrity.

dont hurry, david, said mr. sharp. theres time enough, my boy, dont hurry.

i might have been surprised by the feeling tone in which he spoke, if i had given it a thought but i gave it none until afterwards.

i hurried away to the parlour and there i found mr. creakle, sitting at his breakfast with the cane and a newspaper before him, and mrs. creakle with an opened letter in her hand. but no hamper.

david copperfield, said mrs. creakle, leading me to a sofa, and sitting down beside me. i want to speak to you very particularly.

i have something to tell you, my child.

mr. creakle, at whom of course i looked, shook his head without looking at me, and stopped up a sigh with a very large piece of buttered toast.

you are too young to know how the world changes every day, said mrs. creakle, and how the people in it pass away. but we all have to learn it, david some of us when we are young, some of us when we are old, some of us at all times of our lives.

i looked at her earnestly.

when you came away from home at the end of the vacation, said mrs. creakle, after a pause, were they all well after another pause, was your mama well

i trembled without distinctly knowing why, and still looked at her earnestly, making no attempt to answer.

because, said she, i grieve to tell you that i hear this morning your mama is very ill.

a mist rose between mrs. creakle and me, and her figure seemed to move in it for an instant. then i felt the burning tears run down my face, and it was steady again.

she is very dangerously ill, she added.

i knew all now.

she is dead.

there was no need to tell me so. i had already broken out into a desolate cry, and felt an orphan in the wide world.

she was very kind to me. she kept me there all day, and left me alone sometimes and i cried, and wore myself to sleep, and awoke and cried again. when i could cry no more, i began to think and then the oppression on my breast was heaviest, and my grief a dull pain that there was no ease for.

and yet my thoughts were idle not intent on the calamity that weighed upon my heart, but idly loitering near it. i thought of our house shut up and hushed. i thought of the little baby, who, mrs. creakle said, had been pining away for some time, and who, they believed, would die too. i thought of my fathers grave in the churchyard, by our house, and of my mother lying there beneath the tree i knew so well. i stood upon a chair when i was left alone, and looked into the glass to see how red my eyes were, and how sorrowful my face. i considered, after some hours were gone, if my tears were really hard to flow now, as they seemed to be, what, in connexion with my loss, it would affect me most to think of when i drew near home  for i was going home to the funeral. i am sensible of having felt that a dignity attached to me among the rest of the boys, and that i was important in my affliction.

if ever child were stricken with sincere grief, i was. but i remember that this importance was a kind of satisfaction to me, when i walked in the playground that afternoon while the boys were in school. when i saw them glancing at me out of the windows, as they went up to their classes, i felt distinguished, and looked more melancholy, and walked slower. when school was over, and they came out and spoke to me, i felt it rather good in myself not to be proud to any of them, and to take exactly the same notice of them all, as before.

i was to go home next night not by the mail, but by the heavy nightcoach, which was called the farmer, and was principally used by countrypeople travelling short intermediate distances upon the road. we had no storytelling that evening, and traddles insisted on lending me his pillow. i dont know what good he thought it would do me, for i had one of my own but it was all he had to lend, poor fellow, except a sheet of letterpaper full of skeletons and that he gave me at parting, as a soother of my sorrows and a contribution to my peace of mind.

i left salem house upon the morrow afternoon. i little thought then that i left it, never to return. we travelled very slowly all night, and did not get into yarmouth before nine or ten oclock in the morning. i looked out for mr. barkis, but he was not there and instead of him a fat, shortwinded, merrylooking, little old man in black, with rusty little bunches of ribbons at the knees of his breeches, black stockings, and a broadbrimmed hat, came puffing up to the coach window, and said master copperfield

yes, sir.

will you come with me, young sir, if you please, he said, opening the door, and i shall have the pleasure of taking you home.

i put my hand in his, wondering who he was, and we walked away to a shop in a narrow street, on which was written omer, draper, tailor, haberdasher, funeral furnisher, ampc. it was a close and stifling little shop full of all sorts of clothing, made and unmade, including one window full of beaverhats and bonnets. we went into a little backparlour behind the shop, where we found three young women at work on a quantity of black materials, which were heaped upon the table, and little bits and cuttings of which were littered all over the floor. there was a good fire in the room, and a breathless smell of warm black crape  i did not know what the smell was then, but i know now.

the three young women, who appeared to be very industrious and comfortable, raised their heads to look at me, and then went on with their work. stitch, stitch, stitch. at the same time there came from a workshop across a little yard outside the window, a regular sound of hammering that kept a kind of tune rat  tattat, rat  tattat, rat  tattat, without any variation.

well, said my conductor to one of the three young women. how do you get on, minnie

we shall be ready by the tryingon time, she replied gaily, without looking up. dont you be afraid, father.

mr. omer took off his broadbrimmed hat, and sat down and panted.

he was so fat that he was obliged to pant some time before he could say thats right.

father said minnie, playfully. what a porpoise you do grow

well, i dont know how it is, my dear, he replied, considering about it. i am rather so.

you are such a comfortable man, you see, said minnie. you take things so easy.

no use taking em otherwise, my dear, said mr. omer.

no, indeed, returned his daughter. we are all pretty gay here, thank heaven aint we, father

i hope so, my dear, said mr. omer. as i have got my breath now, i think ill measure this young scholar. would you walk into the shop, master copperfield

i preceded mr. omer, in compliance with his request and after showing me a roll of cloth which he said was extra super, and too good mourning for anything short of parents, he took my various dimensions, and put them down in a book. while he was recording them he called my attention to his stock in trade, and to certain fashions which he said had just come up, and to certain other fashions which he said had just gone out.

and by that sort of thing we very often lose a little mint of money, said mr. omer. but fashions are like human beings. they come in, nobody knows when, why, or how and they go out, nobody knows when, why, or how. everything is like life, in my opinion, if you look at it in that point of view.

i was too sorrowful to discuss the question, which would possibly have been beyond me under any circumstances and mr. omer took me back into the parlour, breathing with some difficulty on the way.

he then called down a little breakneck range of steps behind a door bring up that tea and breadandbutter which, after some time, during which i sat looking about me and thinking, and listening to the stitching in the room and the tune that was being hammered across the yard, appeared on a tray, and turned out to be for me.

i have been acquainted with you, said mr. omer, after watching me for some minutes, during which i had not made much impression on the breakfast, for the black things destroyed my appetite, i have been acquainted with you a long time, my young friend.

have you, sir

all your life, said mr. omer. i may say before it. i knew your father before you. he was five foot nine and a half, and he lays in fiveandtwenty foot of ground.

rat  tattat, rat  tattat, rat  tattat, across the yard.

he lays in five and twenty foot of ground, if he lays in a fraction, said mr. omer, pleasantly. it was either his request or her direction, i forget which.

do you know how my little brother is, sir i inquired.

mr. omer shook his head.

rat  tattat, rat  tattat, rat  tattat.

he is in his mothers arms, said he.

oh, poor little fellow is he dead

dont mind it more than you can help, said mr. omer. yes. the babys dead.

my wounds broke out afresh at this intelligence. i left the scarcelytasted breakfast, and went and rested my head on another table, in a corner of the little room, which minnie hastily cleared, lest i should spot the mourning that was lying there with my tears. she was a pretty, goodnatured girl, and put my hair away from my eyes with a soft, kind touch but she was very cheerful at having nearly finished her work and being in good time, and was so different from me

presently the tune left off, and a goodlooking young fellow came across the yard into the room. he had a hammer in his hand, and his mouth was full of little nails, which he was obliged to take out before he could speak.

well, joram said mr. omer. how do you get on

all right, said joram. done, sir.

minnie coloured a little, and the other two girls smiled at one another.

what you were at it by candlelight last night, when i was at the club, then were you said mr. omer, shutting up one eye.

yes, said joram. as you said we could make a little trip of it, and go over together, if it was done, minnie and me  and you.

oh i thought you were going to leave me out altogether, said mr. omer, laughing till he coughed.

 as you was so good as to say that, resumed the young man, why i turned to with a will, you see. will you give me your opinion of it

i will, said mr. omer, rising. my dear and he stopped and turned to me would you like to see your 

no, father, minnie interposed.

i thought it might be agreeable, my dear, said mr. omer. but perhaps youre right.

i cant say how i knew it was my dear, dear mothers coffin that they went to look at. i had never heard one making i had never seen one that i know of. but it came into my mind what the noise was, while it was going on and when the young man entered, i am sure i knew what he had been doing.

the work being now finished, the two girls, whose names i had not heard, brushed the shreds and threads from their dresses, and went into the shop to put that to rights, and wait for customers.

minnie stayed behind to fold up what they had made, and pack it in two baskets. this she did upon her knees, humming a lively little tune the while. joram, who i had no doubt was her lover, came in and stole a kiss from her while she was busy he didnt appear to mind me, at all, and said her father was gone for the chaise, and he must make haste and get himself ready. then he went out again and then she put her thimble and scissors in her pocket, and stuck a needle threaded with black thread neatly in the bosom of her gown, and put on her outer clothing smartly, at a little glass behind the door, in which i saw the reflection of her pleased face.

all this i observed, sitting at the table in the corner with my head leaning on my hand, and my thoughts running on very different things. the chaise soon came round to the front of the shop, and the baskets being put in first, i was put in next, and those three followed. i remember it as a kind of half chaisecart, half pianofortevan, painted of a sombre colour, and drawn by a black horse with a long tail. there was plenty of room for us all.

i do not think i have ever experienced so strange a feeling in my life i am wiser now, perhaps as that of being with them, remembering how they had been employed, and seeing them enjoy the ride. i was not angry with them i was more afraid of them, as if i were cast away among creatures with whom i had no community of nature. they were very cheerful. the old man sat in front to drive, and the two young people sat behind him, and whenever he spoke to them leaned forward, the one on one side of his chubby face and the other on the other, and made a great deal of him.

they would have talked to me too, but i held back, and moped in my corner scared by their lovemaking and hilarity, though it was far from boisterous, and almost wondering that no judgement came upon them for their hardness of heart.

so, when they stopped to bait the horse, and ate and drank and enjoyed themselves, i could touch nothing that they touched, but kept my fast unbroken. so, when we reached home, i dropped out of the chaise behind, as quickly as possible, that i might not be in their company before those solemn windows, looking blindly on me like closed eyes once bright. and oh, how little need i had had to think what would move me to tears when i came back  seeing the window of my mothers room, and next it that which, in the better time, was mine

i was in peggottys arms before i got to the door, and she took me into the house. her grief burst out when she first saw me but she controlled it soon, and spoke in whispers, and walked softly, as if the dead could be disturbed. she had not been in bed, i found, for a long time. she sat up at night still, and watched. as long as her poor dear pretty was above the ground, she said, she would never desert her.

mr. murdstone took no heed of me when i went into the parlour where he was, but sat by the fireside, weeping silently, and pondering in his elbowchair. miss murdstone, who was busy at her writingdesk, which was covered with letters and papers, gave me her cold fingernails, and asked me, in an iron whisper, if i had been measured for my mourning.

i said yes.

and your shirts, said miss murdstone have you brought em home

yes, maam. i have brought home all my clothes.

this was all the consolation that her firmness administered to me.

i do not doubt that she had a choice pleasure in exhibiting what she called her selfcommand, and her firmness, and her strength of mind, and her common sense, and the whole diabolical catalogue of her unamiable qualities, on such an occasion. she was particularly proud of her turn for business and she showed it now in reducing everything to pen and ink, and being moved by nothing. all the rest of that day, and from morning to night afterwards, she sat at that desk, scratching composedly with a hard pen, speaking in the same imperturbable whisper to everybody never relaxing a muscle of her face, or softening a tone of her voice, or appearing with an atom of her dress astray.

her brother took a book sometimes, but never read it that i saw.

he would open it and look at it as if he were reading, but would remain for a whole hour without turning the leaf, and then put it down and walk to and fro in the room. i used to sit with folded hands watching him, and counting his footsteps, hour after hour.

he very seldom spoke to her, and never to me. he seemed to be the only restless thing, except the clocks, in the whole motionless house.

in these days before the funeral, i saw but little of peggotty, except that, in passing up or down stairs, i always found her close to the room where my mother and her baby lay, and except that she came to me every night, and sat by my beds head while i went to sleep. a day or two before the burial  i think it was a day or two before, but i am conscious of confusion in my mind about that heavy time, with nothing to mark its progress  she took me into the room. i only recollect that underneath some white covering on the bed, with a beautiful cleanliness and freshness all around it, there seemed to me to lie embodied the solemn stillness that was in the house and that when she would have turned the cover gently back, i cried oh no oh no and held her hand.

if the funeral had been yesterday, i could not recollect it better.

the very air of the best parlour, when i went in at the door, the bright condition of the fire, the shining of the wine in the decanters, the patterns of the glasses and plates, the faint sweet smell of cake, the odour of miss murdstones dress, and our black clothes. mr. chillip is in the room, and comes to speak to me.

and how is master david he says, kindly.

i cannot tell him very well. i give him my hand, which he holds in his.

dear me says mr. chillip, meekly smiling, with something shining in his eye. our little friends grow up around us. they grow out of our knowledge, maam this is to miss murdstone, who makes no reply.

there is a great improvement here, maam says mr. chillip.

miss murdstone merely answers with a frown and a formal bend mr.

chillip, discomfited, goes into a corner, keeping me with him, and opens his mouth no more.

i remark this, because i remark everything that happens, not because i care about myself, or have done since i came home. and now the bell begins to sound, and mr. omer and another come to make us ready. as peggotty was wont to tell me, long ago, the followers of my father to the same grave were made ready in the same room.

there are mr. murdstone, our neighbour mr. grayper, mr. chillip, and i. when we go out to the door, the bearers and their load are in the garden and they move before us down the path, and past the elms, and through the gate, and into the churchyard, where i have so often heard the birds sing on a summer morning.

we stand around the grave. the day seems different to me from every other day, and the light not of the same colour  of a sadder colour. now there is a solemn hush, which we have brought from home with what is resting in the mould and while we stand bareheaded, i hear the voice of the clergyman, sounding remote in the open air, and yet distinct and plain, saying i am the resurrection and the life, saith the lord then i hear sobs and, standing apart among the lookerson, i see that good and faithful servant, whom of all the people upon earth i love the best, and unto whom my childish heart is certain that the lord will one day say well done.

there are many faces that i know, among the little crowd faces that i knew in church, when mine was always wondering there faces that first saw my mother, when she came to the village in her youthful bloom. i do not mind them  i mind nothing but my grief  and yet i see and know them all and even in the background, far away, see minnie looking on, and her eye glancing on her sweetheart, who is near me.

it is over, and the earth is filled in, and we turn to come away.

before us stands our house, so pretty and unchanged, so linked in my mind with the young idea of what is gone, that all my sorrow has been nothing to the sorrow it calls forth. but they take me on and mr. chillip talks to me and when we get home, puts some water to my lips and when i ask his leave to go up to my room, dismisses me with the gentleness of a woman.

all this, i say, is yesterdays event. events of later date have floated from me to the shore where all forgotten things will reappear, but this stands like a high rock in the ocean.

i knew that peggotty would come to me in my room. the sabbath stillness of the time the day was so like sunday i have forgotten that was suited to us both. she sat down by my side upon my little bed and holding my hand, and sometimes putting it to her lips, and sometimes smoothing it with hers, as she might have comforted my little brother, told me, in her way, all that she had to tell concerning what had happened.

she was never well, said peggotty, for a long time. she was uncertain in her mind, and not happy. when her baby was born, i thought at first she would get better, but she was more delicate, and sunk a little every day. she used to like to sit alone before her baby came, and then she cried but afterwards she used to sing to it  so soft, that i once thought, when i heard her, it was like a voice up in the air, that was rising away.

i think she got to be more timid, and more frightenedlike, of late and that a hard word was like a blow to her. but she was always the same to me. she never changed to her foolish peggotty, didnt my sweet girl.

here peggotty stopped, and softly beat upon my hand a little while.

the last time that i saw her like her own old self, was the night when you came home, my dear. the day you went away, she said to me, i never shall see my pretty darling again. something tells me so, that tells the truth, i know. she tried to hold up after that and many a time, when they told her she was thoughtless and lighthearted, made believe to be so but it was all a bygone then. she never told her husband what she had told me  she was afraid of saying it to anybody else  till one night, a little more than a week before it happened, when she said to him my dear, i think i am dying. its off my mind now, peggotty, she told me, when i laid her in her bed that night. he will believe it more and more, poor fellow, every day for a few days to come and then it will be past.

i am very tired. if this is sleep, sit by me while i sleep dont leave me. god bless both my children god protect and keep my fatherless boy i never left her afterwards, said peggotty. she often talked to them two downstairs  for she loved them she couldnt bear not to love anyone who was about her  but when they went away from her bedside, she always turned to me, as if there was rest where peggotty was, and never fell asleep in any other way.

on the last night, in the evening, she kissed me, and said if my baby should die too, peggotty, please let them lay him in my arms, and bury us together. it was done for the poor lamb lived but a day beyond her. let my dearest boy go with us to our restingplace, she said, and tell him that his mother, when she lay here, blessed him not once, but a thousand times.

another silence followed this, and another gentle beating on my hand.

it was pretty far in the night, said peggotty, when she asked me for some drink and when she had taken it, gave me such a patient smile, the dear  so beautiful daybreak had come, and the sun was rising, when she said to me, how kind and considerate mr. copperfield had always been to her, and how he had borne with her, and told her, when she doubted herself, that a loving heart was better and stronger than wisdom, and that he was a happy man in hers. peggotty, my dear, she said then, put me nearer to you, for she was very weak. lay your good arm underneath my neck, she said, and turn me to you, for your face is going far off, and i want it to be near. i put it as she asked and oh davy the time had come when my first parting words to you were true  when she was glad to lay her poor head on her stupid cross old peggottys arm  and she died like a child that had gone to sleep


thus ended peggottys narration. from the moment of my knowing of the death of my mother, the idea of her as she had been of late had vanished from me. i remembered her, from that instant, only as the young mother of my earliest impressions, who had been used to wind her bright curls round and round her finger, and to dance with me at twilight in the parlour. what peggotty had told me now, was so far from bringing me back to the later period, that it rooted the earlier image in my mind. it may be curious, but it is true. in her death she winged her way back to her calm untroubled youth, and cancelled all the rest.

the mother who lay in the grave, was the mother of my infancy the little creature in her arms, was myself, as i had once been, hushed for ever on her bosom.



chapter 

i become neglected, and am provided for

the first act of business miss murdstone performed when the day of the solemnity was over, and light was freely admitted into the house, was to give peggotty a months warning. much as peggotty would have disliked such a service, i believe she would have retained it, for my sake, in preference to the best upon earth.

she told me we must part, and told me why and we condoled with one another, in all sincerity.

as to me or my future, not a word was said, or a step taken. happy they would have been, i dare say, if they could have dismissed me at a months warning too. i mustered courage once, to ask miss murdstone when i was going back to school and she answered dryly, she believed i was not going back at all. i was told nothing more.

i was very anxious to know what was going to be done with me, and so was peggotty but neither she nor i could pick up any information on the subject.

there was one change in my condition, which, while it relieved me of a great deal of present uneasiness, might have made me, if i had been capable of considering it closely, yet more uncomfortable about the future. it was this. the constraint that had been put upon me, was quite abandoned. i was so far from being required to keep my dull post in the parlour, that on several occasions, when i took my seat there, miss murdstone frowned to me to go away. i was so far from being warned off from peggottys society, that, provided i was not in mr. murdstones, i was never sought out or inquired for. at first i was in daily dread of his taking my education in hand again, or of miss murdstones devoting herself to it but i soon began to think that such fears were groundless, and that all i had to anticipate was neglect.

i do not conceive that this discovery gave me much pain then. i was still giddy with the shock of my mothers death, and in a kind of stunned state as to all tributary things. i can recollect, indeed, to have speculated, at odd times, on the possibility of my not being taught any more, or cared for any more and growing up to be a shabby, moody man, lounging an idle life away, about the village as well as on the feasibility of my getting rid of this picture by going away somewhere, like the hero in a story, to seek my fortune but these were transient visions, daydreams i sat looking at sometimes, as if they were faintly painted or written on the wall of my room, and which, as they melted away, left the wall blank again.

peggotty, i said in a thoughtful whisper, one evening, when i was warming my hands at the kitchen fire, mr. murdstone likes me less than he used to. he never liked me much, peggotty but he would rather not even see me now, if he can help it.

perhaps its his sorrow, said peggotty, stroking my hair.

i am sure, peggotty, i am sorry too. if i believed it was his sorrow, i should not think of it at all. but its not that oh, no, its not that.

how do you know its not that said peggotty, after a silence.

oh, his sorrow is another and quite a different thing. he is sorry at this moment, sitting by the fireside with miss murdstone but if i was to go in, peggotty, he would be something besides.

what would he be said peggotty.

angry, i answered, with an involuntary imitation of his dark frown. if he was only sorry, he wouldnt look at me as he does.

i am only sorry, and it makes me feel kinder.

peggotty said nothing for a little while and i warmed my hands, as silent as she.

davy, she said at length.

yes, peggotty

i have tried, my dear, all ways i could think of  all the ways there are, and all the ways there aint, in short  to get a suitable service here, in blunderstone but theres no such a thing, my love.

and what do you mean to do, peggotty, says i, wistfully. do you mean to go and seek your fortune

i expect i shall be forced to go to yarmouth, replied peggotty, and live there.

you might have gone farther off, i said, brightening a little, and been as bad as lost. i shall see you sometimes, my dear old peggotty, there. you wont be quite at the other end of the world, will you

contrary ways, please god cried peggotty, with great animation.

as long as you are here, my pet, i shall come over every week of my life to see you. one day, every week of my life

i felt a great weight taken off my mind by this promise but even this was not all, for peggotty went on to say im agoing, davy, you see, to my brothers, first, for another fortnights visit  just till i have had time to look about me, and get to be something like myself again. now, i have been thinking that perhaps, as they dont want you here at present, you might be let to go along with me.

if anything, short of being in a different relation to every one about me, peggotty excepted, could have given me a sense of pleasure at that time, it would have been this project of all others. the idea of being again surrounded by those honest faces, shining welcome on me of renewing the peacefulness of the sweet sunday morning, when the bells were ringing, the stones dropping in the water, and the shadowy ships breaking through the mist of roaming up and down with little emly, telling her my troubles, and finding charms against them in the shells and pebbles on the beach made a calm in my heart. it was ruffled next moment, to be sure, by a doubt of miss murdstones giving her consent but even that was set at rest soon, for she came out to take an evening grope in the storecloset while we were yet in conversation, and peggotty, with a boldness that amazed me, broached the topic on the spot.

the boy will be idle there, said miss murdstone, looking into a picklejar, and idleness is the root of all evil. but, to be sure, he would be idle here  or anywhere, in my opinion.

peggotty had an angry answer ready, i could see but she swallowed it for my sake, and remained silent.

humph said miss murdstone, still keeping her eye on the pickles it is of more importance than anything else  it is of paramount importance  that my brother should not be disturbed or made uncomfortable. i suppose i had better say yes.

i thanked her, without making any demonstration of joy, lest it should induce her to withdraw her assent. nor could i help thinking this a prudent course, since she looked at me out of the picklejar, with as great an access of sourness as if her black eyes had absorbed its contents. however, the permission was given, and was never retracted for when the month was out, peggotty and i were ready to depart.

mr. barkis came into the house for peggottys boxes. i had never known him to pass the gardengate before, but on this occasion he came into the house. and he gave me a look as he shouldered the largest box and went out, which i thought had meaning in it, if meaning could ever be said to find its way into mr. barkiss visage.

peggotty was naturally in low spirits at leaving what had been her home so many years, and where the two strong attachments of her life  for my mother and myself  had been formed. she had been walking in the churchyard, too, very early and she got into the cart, and sat in it with her handkerchief at her eyes.

so long as she remained in this condition, mr. barkis gave no sign of life whatever. he sat in his usual place and attitude like a great stuffed figure. but when she began to look about her, and to speak to me, he nodded his head and grinned several times. i have not the least notion at whom, or what he meant by it.

its a beautiful day, mr. barkis i said, as an act of politeness.

it aint bad, said mr. barkis, who generally qualified his speech, and rarely committed himself.

peggotty is quite comfortable now, mr. barkis, i remarked, for his satisfaction.

is she, though said mr. barkis.

after reflecting about it, with a sagacious air, mr. barkis eyed her, and said are you pretty comfortable

peggotty laughed, and answered in the affirmative.

but really and truly, you know. are you growled mr. barkis, sliding nearer to her on the seat, and nudging her with his elbow.

are you really and truly pretty comfortable are you eh

at each of these inquiries mr. barkis shuffled nearer to her, and gave her another nudge so that at last we were all crowded together in the lefthand corner of the cart, and i was so squeezed that i could hardly bear it.

peggotty calling his attention to my sufferings, mr. barkis gave me a little more room at once, and got away by degrees. but i could not help observing that he seemed to think he had hit upon a wonderful expedient for expressing himself in a neat, agreeable, and pointed manner, without the inconvenience of inventing conversation. he manifestly chuckled over it for some time. by and by he turned to peggotty again, and repeating, are you pretty comfortable though bore down upon us as before, until the breath was nearly edged out of my body. by and by he made another descent upon us with the same inquiry, and the same result. at length, i got up whenever i saw him coming, and standing on the footboard, pretended to look at the prospect after which i did very well.

he was so polite as to stop at a publichouse, expressly on our account, and entertain us with broiled mutton and beer. even when peggotty was in the act of drinking, he was seized with one of those approaches, and almost choked her. but as we drew nearer to the end of our journey, he had more to do and less time for gallantry and when we got on yarmouth pavement, we were all too much shaken and jolted, i apprehend, to have any leisure for anything else.

mr. peggotty and ham waited for us at the old place. they received me and peggotty in an affectionate manner, and shook hands with mr.

barkis, who, with his hat on the very back of his head, and a shamefaced leer upon his countenance, and pervading his very legs, presented but a vacant appearance, i thought. they each took one of peggottys trunks, and we were going away, when mr. barkis solemnly made a sign to me with his forefinger to come under an archway.

i say, growled mr. barkis, it was all right.

i looked up into his face, and answered, with an attempt to be very profound oh

it didnt come to a end there, said mr. barkis, nodding confidentially. it was all right.

again i answered, oh

you know who was willin, said my friend. it was barkis, and barkis only.

i nodded assent.

its all right, said mr. barkis, shaking hands im a friend of yourn. you made it all right, first. its all right.

in his attempts to be particularly lucid, mr. barkis was so extremely mysterious, that i might have stood looking in his face for an hour, and most assuredly should have got as much information out of it as out of the face of a clock that had stopped, but for peggottys calling me away. as we were going along, she asked me what he had said and i told her he had said it was all right.

like his impudence, said peggotty, but i dont mind that davy dear, what should you think if i was to think of being married

why  i suppose you would like me as much then, peggotty, as you do now i returned, after a little consideration.

greatly to the astonishment of the passengers in the street, as well as of her relations going on before, the good soul was obliged to stop and embrace me on the spot, with many protestations of her unalterable love.

tell me what should you say, darling she asked again, when this was over, and we were walking on.

if you were thinking of being married  to mr. barkis, peggotty

yes, said peggotty.

i should think it would be a very good thing. for then you know, peggotty, you would always have the horse and cart to bring you over to see me, and could come for nothing, and be sure of coming.

the sense of the dear cried peggotty. what i have been thinking of, this month back yes, my precious and i think i should be more independent altogether, you see let alone my working with a better heart in my own house, than i could in anybody elses now. i dont know what i might be fit for, now, as a servant to a stranger. and i shall be always near my prettys restingplace, said peggotty, musing, and be able to see it when i like and when i lie down to rest, i may be laid not far off from my darling girl

we neither of us said anything for a little while.

but i wouldnt so much as give it another thought, said peggotty, cheerily if my davy was anyways against it  not if i had been asked in church thirty times three times over, and was wearing out the ring in my pocket.

look at me, peggotty, i replied and see if i am not really glad, and dont truly wish it as indeed i did, with all my heart.

well, my life, said peggotty, giving me a squeeze, i have thought of it night and day, every way i can, and i hope the right way but ill think of it again, and speak to my brother about it, and in the meantime well keep it to ourselves, davy, you and me.

barkis is a good plain creature, said peggotty, and if i tried to do my duty by him, i think it would be my fault if i wasnt  if i wasnt pretty comfortable, said peggotty, laughing heartily.

this quotation from mr. barkis was so appropriate, and tickled us both so much, that we laughed again and again, and were quite in a pleasant humour when we came within view of mr. peggottys cottage.

it looked just the same, except that it may, perhaps, have shrunk a little in my eyes and mrs. gummidge was waiting at the door as if she had stood there ever since. all within was the same, down to the seaweed in the blue mug in my bedroom. i went into the outhouse to look about me and the very same lobsters, crabs, and crawfish possessed by the same desire to pinch the world in general, appeared to be in the same state of conglomeration in the same old corner.

but there was no little emly to be seen, so i asked mr. peggotty where she was.

shes at school, sir, said mr. peggotty, wiping the heat consequent on the porterage of peggottys box from his forehead shell be home, looking at the dutch clock, in from twenty minutes to halfanhours time. we all on us feel the loss of her, bless ye

mrs. gummidge moaned.

cheer up, mawther cried mr. peggotty.

i feel it more than anybody else, said mrs. gummidge im a lone lorn creetur, and she used to be amost the only thing that didnt go contrary with me.

mrs. gummidge, whimpering and shaking her head, applied herself to blowing the fire. mr. peggotty, looking round upon us while she was so engaged, said in a low voice, which he shaded with his hand the old un from this i rightly conjectured that no improvement had taken place since my last visit in the state of mrs. gummidges spirits.

now, the whole place was, or it should have been, quite as delightful a place as ever and yet it did not impress me in the same way. i felt rather disappointed with it. perhaps it was because little emly was not at home. i knew the way by which she would come, and presently found myself strolling along the path to meet her.

a figure appeared in the distance before long, and i soon knew it to be emly, who was a little creature still in stature, though she was grown. but when she drew nearer, and i saw her blue eyes looking bluer, and her dimpled face looking brighter, and her whole self prettier and gayer, a curious feeling came over me that made me pretend not to know her, and pass by as if i were looking at something a long way off. i have done such a thing since in later life, or i am mistaken.

little emly didnt care a bit. she saw me well enough but instead of turning round and calling after me, ran away laughing.

this obliged me to run after her, and she ran so fast that we were very near the cottage before i caught her.

oh, its you, is it said little emly.

why, you knew who it was, emly, said i.

and didnt you know who it was said emly. i was going to kiss her, but she covered her cherry lips with her hands, and said she wasnt a baby now, and ran away, laughing more than ever, into the house.

she seemed to delight in teasing me, which was a change in her i wondered at very much. the tea table was ready, and our little locker was put out in its old place, but instead of coming to sit by me, she went and bestowed her company upon that grumbling mrs.

gummidge and on mr. peggottys inquiring why, rumpled her hair all over her face to hide it, and could do nothing but laugh.

a little puss, it is said mr. peggotty, patting her with his great hand.

so sh is so sh is cried ham. masr davy bor, so sh is and he sat and chuckled at her for some time, in a state of mingled admiration and delight, that made his face a burning red.

little emly was spoiled by them all, in fact and by no one more than mr. peggotty himself, whom she could have coaxed into anything, by only going and laying her cheek against his rough whisker. that was my opinion, at least, when i saw her do it and i held mr. peggotty to be thoroughly in the right. but she was so affectionate and sweetnatured, and had such a pleasant manner of being both sly and shy at once, that she captivated me more than ever.

she was tenderhearted, too for when, as we sat round the fire after tea, an allusion was made by mr. peggotty over his pipe to the loss i had sustained, the tears stood in her eyes, and she looked at me so kindly across the table, that i felt quite thankful to her.

ah said mr. peggotty, taking up her curls, and running them over his hand like water, heres another orphan, you see, sir. and here, said mr. peggotty, giving ham a backhanded knock in the chest, is another of em, though he dont look much like it.

if i had you for my guardian, mr. peggotty, said i, shaking my head, i dont think i should feel much like it.

well said, masr davy bor cried ham, in an ecstasy. hoorah

well said nor more you wouldnt hor hor  here he returned mr. peggottys backhander, and little emly got up and kissed mr.

peggotty. and hows your friend, sir said mr. peggotty to me.

steerforth said i.

thats the name cried mr. peggotty, turning to ham. i knowed it was something in our way.

you said it was rudderford, observed ham, laughing.

well retorted mr. peggotty. and ye steer with a rudder, dont ye it aint fur off. how is he, sir

he was very well indeed when i came away, mr. peggotty.

theres a friend said mr. peggotty, stretching out his pipe.

theres a friend, if you talk of friends why, lord love my heart alive, if it aint a treat to look at him

he is very handsome, is he not said i, my heart warming with this praise.

handsome cried mr. peggotty. he stands up to you like  like a  why i dont know what he dont stand up to you like. hes so bold

yes thats just his character, said i. hes as brave as a lion, and you cant think how frank he is, mr. peggotty.

and i do suppose, now, said mr. peggotty, looking at me through the smoke of his pipe, that in the way of booklarning hed take the wind out of amost anything.

yes, said i, delighted he knows everything. he is astonishingly clever.

theres a friend murmured mr. peggotty, with a grave toss of his head.

nothing seems to cost him any trouble, said i. he knows a task if he only looks at it. he is the best cricketer you ever saw. he will give you almost as many men as you like at draughts, and beat you easily.

mr. peggotty gave his head another toss, as much as to say of course he will.

he is such a speaker, i pursued, that he can win anybody over and i dont know what youd say if you were to hear him sing, mr.

peggotty.

mr. peggotty gave his head another toss, as much as to say i have no doubt of it.

then, hes such a generous, fine, noble fellow, said i, quite carried away by my favourite theme, that its hardly possible to give him as much praise as he deserves. i am sure i can never feel thankful enough for the generosity with which he has protected me, so much younger and lower in the school than himself.

i was running on, very fast indeed, when my eyes rested on little emlys face, which was bent forward over the table, listening with the deepest attention, her breath held, her blue eyes sparkling like jewels, and the colour mantling in her cheeks. she looked so extraordinarily earnest and pretty, that i stopped in a sort of wonder and they all observed her at the same time, for as i stopped, they laughed and looked at her.

emly is like me, said peggotty, and would like to see him.

emly was confused by our all observing her, and hung down her head, and her face was covered with blushes. glancing up presently through her stray curls, and seeing that we were all looking at her still i am sure i, for one, could have looked at her for hours, she ran away, and kept away till it was nearly bedtime.

i lay down in the old little bed in the stern of the boat, and the wind came moaning on across the flat as it had done before. but i could not help fancying, now, that it moaned of those who were gone and instead of thinking that the sea might rise in the night and float the boat away, i thought of the sea that had risen, since i last heard those sounds, and drowned my happy home. i recollect, as the wind and water began to sound fainter in my ears, putting a short clause into my prayers, petitioning that i might grow up to marry little emly, and so dropping lovingly asleep.

the days passed pretty much as they had passed before, except  it was a great exception that little emly and i seldom wandered on the beach now. she had tasks to learn, and needlework to do and was absent during a great part of each day. but i felt that we should not have had those old wanderings, even if it had been otherwise. wild and full of childish whims as emly was, she was more of a little woman than i had supposed. she seemed to have got a great distance away from me, in little more than a year. she liked me, but she laughed at me, and tormented me and when i went to meet her, stole home another way, and was laughing at the door when i came back, disappointed. the best times were when she sat quietly at work in the doorway, and i sat on the wooden step at her feet, reading to her. it seems to me, at this hour, that i have never seen such sunlight as on those bright april afternoons that i have never seen such a sunny little figure as i used to see, sitting in the doorway of the old boat that i have never beheld such sky, such water, such glorified ships sailing away into golden air.

on the very first evening after our arrival, mr. barkis appeared in an exceedingly vacant and awkward condition, and with a bundle of oranges tied up in a handkerchief. as he made no allusion of any kind to this property, he was supposed to have left it behind him by accident when he went away until ham, running after him to restore it, came back with the information that it was intended for peggotty. after that occasion he appeared every evening at exactly the same hour, and always with a little bundle, to which he never alluded, and which he regularly put behind the door and left there.

these offerings of affection were of a most various and eccentric description. among them i remember a double set of pigs trotters, a huge pincushion, half a bushel or so of apples, a pair of jet earrings, some spanish onions, a box of dominoes, a canary bird and cage, and a leg of pickled pork.

mr. barkiss wooing, as i remember it, was altogether of a peculiar kind. he very seldom said anything but would sit by the fire in much the same attitude as he sat in his cart, and stare heavily at peggotty, who was opposite. one night, being, as i suppose, inspired by love, he made a dart at the bit of waxcandle she kept for her thread, and put it in his waistcoatpocket and carried it off. after that, his great delight was to produce it when it was wanted, sticking to the lining of his pocket, in a partially melted state, and pocket it again when it was done with. he seemed to enjoy himself very much, and not to feel at all called upon to talk. even when he took peggotty out for a walk on the flats, he had no uneasiness on that head, i believe contenting himself with now and then asking her if she was pretty comfortable and i remember that sometimes, after he was gone, peggotty would throw her apron over her face, and laugh for halfanhour. indeed, we were all more or less amused, except that miserable mrs. gummidge, whose courtship would appear to have been of an exactly parallel nature, she was so continually reminded by these transactions of the old one.

at length, when the term of my visit was nearly expired, it was given out that peggotty and mr. barkis were going to make a days holiday together, and that little emly and i were to accompany them. i had but a broken sleep the night before, in anticipation of the pleasure of a whole day with emly. we were all astir betimes in the morning and while we were yet at breakfast, mr.

barkis appeared in the distance, driving a chaisecart towards the object of his affections.

peggotty was dressed as usual, in her neat and quiet mourning but mr. barkis bloomed in a new blue coat, of which the tailor had given him such good measure, that the cuffs would have rendered gloves unnecessary in the coldest weather, while the collar was so high that it pushed his hair up on end on the top of his head. his bright buttons, too, were of the largest size. rendered complete by drab pantaloons and a buff waistcoat, i thought mr. barkis a phenomenon of respectability.

when we were all in a bustle outside the door, i found that mr.

peggotty was prepared with an old shoe, which was to be thrown after us for luck, and which he offered to mrs. gummidge for that purpose.

no. it had better be done by somebody else, danl, said mrs.

gummidge. im a lone lorn creetur myself, and everythink that reminds me of creeturs that aint lone and lorn, goes contrary with me.

come, old gal cried mr. peggotty. take and heave it.

no, danl, returned mrs. gummidge, whimpering and shaking her head. if i felt less, i could do more. you dont feel like me, danl thinks dont go contrary with you, nor you with them you had better do it yourself.

but here peggotty, who had been going about from one to another in a hurried way, kissing everybody, called out from the cart, in which we all were by this time emly and i on two little chairs, side by side, that mrs. gummidge must do it. so mrs. gummidge did it and, i am sorry to relate, cast a damp upon the festive character of our departure, by immediately bursting into tears, and sinking subdued into the arms of ham, with the declaration that she knowed she was a burden, and had better be carried to the house at once. which i really thought was a sensible idea, that ham might have acted on.

away we went, however, on our holiday excursion and the first thing we did was to stop at a church, where mr. barkis tied the horse to some rails, and went in with peggotty, leaving little emly and me alone in the chaise. i took that occasion to put my arm round emlys waist, and propose that as i was going away so very soon now, we should determine to be very affectionate to one another, and very happy, all day. little emly consenting, and allowing me to kiss her, i became desperate informing her, i recollect, that i never could love another, and that i was prepared to shed the blood of anybody who should aspire to her affections.

how merry little emly made herself about it with what a demure assumption of being immensely older and wiser than i, the fairy little woman said i was a silly boy and then laughed so charmingly that i forgot the pain of being called by that disparaging name, in the pleasure of looking at her.

mr. barkis and peggotty were a good while in the church, but came out at last, and then we drove away into the country. as we were going along, mr. barkis turned to me, and said, with a wink,  by the by, i should hardly have thought, before, that he could wink what name was it as i wrote up in the cart

clara peggotty, i answered.

what name would it be as i should write up now, if there was a tilt here

clara peggotty, again i suggested.

clara peggotty barkis he returned, and burst into a roar of laughter that shook the chaise.

in a word, they were married, and had gone into the church for no other purpose. peggotty was resolved that it should be quietly done and the clerk had given her away, and there had been no witnesses of the ceremony. she was a little confused when mr.

barkis made this abrupt announcement of their union, and could not hug me enough in token of her unimpaired affection but she soon became herself again, and said she was very glad it was over.

we drove to a little inn in a byroad, where we were expected, and where we had a very comfortable dinner, and passed the day with great satisfaction. if peggotty had been married every day for the last ten years, she could hardly have been more at her ease about it it made no sort of difference in her she was just the same as ever, and went out for a stroll with little emly and me before tea, while mr. barkis philosophically smoked his pipe, and enjoyed himself, i suppose, with the contemplation of his happiness. if so, it sharpened his appetite for i distinctly call to mind that, although he had eaten a good deal of pork and greens at dinner, and had finished off with a fowl or two, he was obliged to have cold boiled bacon for tea, and disposed of a large quantity without any emotion.

i have often thought, since, what an odd, innocent, outoftheway kind of wedding it must have been we got into the chaise again soon after dark, and drove cosily back, looking up at the stars, and talking about them. i was their chief exponent, and opened mr.

barkiss mind to an amazing extent. i told him all i knew, but he would have believed anything i might have taken it into my head to impart to him for he had a profound veneration for my abilities, and informed his wife in my hearing, on that very occasion, that i was a young roeshus  by which i think he meant prodigy.

when we had exhausted the subject of the stars, or rather when i had exhausted the mental faculties of mr. barkis, little emly and i made a cloak of an old wrapper, and sat under it for the rest of the journey. ah, how i loved her what happiness i thought if we were married, and were going away anywhere to live among the trees and in the fields, never growing older, never growing wiser, children ever, rambling hand in hand through sunshine and among flowery meadows, laying down our heads on moss at night, in a sweet sleep of purity and peace, and buried by the birds when we were dead some such picture, with no real world in it, bright with the light of our innocence, and vague as the stars afar off, was in my mind all the way. i am glad to think there were two such guileless hearts at peggottys marriage as little emlys and mine. i am glad to think the loves and graces took such airy forms in its homely procession.

well, we came to the old boat again in good time at night and there mr. and mrs. barkis bade us goodbye, and drove away snugly to their own home. i felt then, for the first time, that i had lost peggotty. i should have gone to bed with a sore heart indeed under any other roof but that which sheltered little emlys head.

mr. peggotty and ham knew what was in my thoughts as well as i did, and were ready with some supper and their hospitable faces to drive it away. little emly came and sat beside me on the locker for the only time in all that visit and it was altogether a wonderful close to a wonderful day.

it was a night tide and soon after we went to bed, mr. peggotty and ham went out to fish. i felt very brave at being left alone in the solitary house, the protector of emly and mrs. gummidge, and only wished that a lion or a serpent, or any illdisposed monster, would make an attack upon us, that i might destroy him, and cover myself with glory. but as nothing of the sort happened to be walking about on yarmouth flats that night, i provided the best substitute i could by dreaming of dragons until morning.

with morning came peggotty who called to me, as usual, under my window as if mr. barkis the carrier had been from first to last a dream too. after breakfast she took me to her own home, and a beautiful little home it was. of all the moveables in it, i must have been impressed by a certain old bureau of some dark wood in the parlour the tilefloored kitchen was the general sittingroom, with a retreating top which opened, let down, and became a desk, within which was a large quarto edition of foxes book of martyrs. this precious volume, of which i do not recollect one word, i immediately discovered and immediately applied myself to and i never visited the house afterwards, but i kneeled on a chair, opened the casket where this gem was enshrined, spread my arms over the desk, and fell to devouring the book afresh. i was chiefly edified, i am afraid, by the pictures, which were numerous, and represented all kinds of dismal horrors but the martyrs and peggottys house have been inseparable in my mind ever since, and are now.

i took leave of mr. peggotty, and ham, and mrs. gummidge, and little emly, that day and passed the night at peggottys, in a little room in the roof with the crocodile book on a shelf by the beds head which was to be always mine, peggotty said, and should always be kept for me in exactly the same state.

young or old, davy dear, as long as i am alive and have this house over my head, said peggotty, you shall find it as if i expected you here directly minute. i shall keep it every day, as i used to keep your old little room, my darling and if you was to go to china, you might think of it as being kept just the same, all the time you were away.

i felt the truth and constancy of my dear old nurse, with all my heart, and thanked her as well as i could. that was not very well, for she spoke to me thus, with her arms round my neck, in the morning, and i was going home in the morning, and i went home in the morning, with herself and mr. barkis in the cart. they left me at the gate, not easily or lightly and it was a strange sight to me to see the cart go on, taking peggotty away, and leaving me under the old elmtrees looking at the house, in which there was no face to look on mine with love or liking any more.

and now i fell into a state of neglect, which i cannot look back upon without compassion. i fell at once into a solitary condition,  apart from all friendly notice, apart from the society of all other boys of my own age, apart from all companionship but my own spiritless thoughts,  which seems to cast its gloom upon this paper as i write.

what would i have given, to have been sent to the hardest school that ever was kept  to have been taught something, anyhow, anywhere no such hope dawned upon me. they disliked me and they sullenly, sternly, steadily, overlooked me. i think mr.

murdstones means were straitened at about this time but it is little to the purpose. he could not bear me and in putting me from him he tried, as i believe, to put away the notion that i had any claim upon him  and succeeded.

i was not actively illused. i was not beaten, or starved but the wrong that was done to me had no intervals of relenting, and was done in a systematic, passionless manner. day after day, week after week, month after month, i was coldly neglected. i wonder sometimes, when i think of it, what they would have done if i had been taken with an illness whether i should have lain down in my lonely room, and languished through it in my usual solitary way, or whether anybody would have helped me out.

when mr. and miss murdstone were at home, i took my meals with them in their absence, i ate and drank by myself. at all times i lounged about the house and neighbourhood quite disregarded, except that they were jealous of my making any friends thinking, perhaps, that if i did, i might complain to someone. for this reason, though mr. chillip often asked me to go and see him he was a widower, having, some years before that, lost a little small lighthaired wife, whom i can just remember connecting in my own thoughts with a pale tortoiseshell cat, it was but seldom that i enjoyed the happiness of passing an afternoon in his closet of a surgery reading some book that was new to me, with the smell of the whole pharmacopoeia coming up my nose, or pounding something in a mortar under his mild directions.

for the same reason, added no doubt to the old dislike of her, i was seldom allowed to visit peggotty. faithful to her promise, she either came to see me, or met me somewhere near, once every week, and never emptyhanded but many and bitter were the disappointments i had, in being refused permission to pay a visit to her at her house. some few times, however, at long intervals, i was allowed to go there and then i found out that mr. barkis was something of a miser, or as peggotty dutifully expressed it, was a little near, and kept a heap of money in a box under his bed, which he pretended was only full of coats and trousers. in this coffer, his riches hid themselves with such a tenacious modesty, that the smallest instalments could only be tempted out by artifice so that peggotty had to prepare a long and elaborate scheme, a very gunpowder plot, for every saturdays expenses.

all this time i was so conscious of the waste of any promise i had given, and of my being utterly neglected, that i should have been perfectly miserable, i have no doubt, but for the old books. they were my only comfort and i was as true to them as they were to me, and read them over and over i dont know how many times more.

i now approach a period of my life, which i can never lose the remembrance of, while i remember anything and the recollection of which has often, without my invocation, come before me like a ghost, and haunted happier times.

i had been out, one day, loitering somewhere, in the listless, meditative manner that my way of life engendered, when, turning the corner of a lane near our house, i came upon mr. murdstone walking with a gentleman. i was confused, and was going by them, when the gentleman cried what brooks

no, sir, david copperfield, i said.

dont tell me. you are brooks, said the gentleman. you are brooks of sheffield. thats your name.

at these words, i observed the gentleman more attentively. his laugh coming to my remembrance too, i knew him to be mr. quinion, whom i had gone over to lowestoft with mr. murdstone to see, before  it is no matter  i need not recall when.

and how do you get on, and where are you being educated, brooks said mr. quinion.

he had put his hand upon my shoulder, and turned me about, to walk with them. i did not know what to reply, and glanced dubiously at mr. murdstone.

he is at home at present, said the latter. he is not being educated anywhere. i dont know what to do with him. he is a difficult subject.

that old, double look was on me for a moment and then his eyes darkened with a frown, as it turned, in its aversion, elsewhere.

humph said mr. quinion, looking at us both, i thought. fine weather

silence ensued, and i was considering how i could best disengage my shoulder from his hand, and go away, when he said i suppose you are a pretty sharp fellow still eh, brooks

aye he is sharp enough, said mr. murdstone, impatiently. you had better let him go. he will not thank you for troubling him.

on this hint, mr. quinion released me, and i made the best of my way home. looking back as i turned into the front garden, i saw mr. murdstone leaning against the wicket of the churchyard, and mr.

quinion talking to him. they were both looking after me, and i felt that they were speaking of me.

mr. quinion lay at our house that night. after breakfast, the next morning, i had put my chair away, and was going out of the room, when mr. murdstone called me back. he then gravely repaired to another table, where his sister sat herself at her desk. mr.

quinion, with his hands in his pockets, stood looking out of window and i stood looking at them all.

david, said mr. murdstone, to the young this is a world for action not for moping and droning in.  as you do, added his sister.

jane murdstone, leave it to me, if you please. i say, david, to the young this is a world for action, and not for moping and droning in. it is especially so for a young boy of your disposition, which requires a great deal of correcting and to which no greater service can be done than to force it to conform to the ways of the working world, and to bend it and break it.

for stubbornness wont do here, said his sister what it wants is, to be crushed. and crushed it must be. shall be, too

he gave her a look, half in remonstrance, half in approval, and went on i suppose you know, david, that i am not rich. at any rate, you know it now. you have received some considerable education already. education is costly and even if it were not, and i could afford it, i am of opinion that it would not be at all advantageous to you to be kept at school. what is before you, is a fight with the world and the sooner you begin it, the better.

i think it occurred to me that i had already begun it, in my poor way but it occurs to me now, whether or no.

you have heard the countinghouse mentioned sometimes, said mr.

murdstone.

the countinghouse, sir i repeated.

of murdstone and grinby, in the wine trade, he replied.

i suppose i looked uncertain, for he went on hastily you have heard the countinghouse mentioned, or the business, or the cellars, or the wharf, or something about it.

i think i have heard the business mentioned, sir, i said, remembering what i vaguely knew of his and his sisters resources.

but i dont know when.

it does not matter when, he returned. mr. quinion manages that business.

i glanced at the latter deferentially as he stood looking out of window.

mr. quinion suggests that it gives employment to some other boys, and that he sees no reason why it shouldnt, on the same terms, give employment to you.

he having, mr. quinion observed in a low voice, and half turning round, no other prospect, murdstone.

mr. murdstone, with an impatient, even an angry gesture, resumed, without noticing what he had said those terms are, that you will earn enough for yourself to provide for your eating and drinking, and pocketmoney. your lodging which i have arranged for will be paid by me. so will your washing 

 which will be kept down to my estimate, said his sister.

your clothes will be looked after for you, too, said mr.

murdstone as you will not be able, yet awhile, to get them for yourself. so you are now going to london, david, with mr. quinion, to begin the world on your own account.

in short, you are provided for, observed his sister and will please to do your duty.

though i quite understood that the purpose of this announcement was to get rid of me, i have no distinct remembrance whether it pleased or frightened me. my impression is, that i was in a state of confusion about it, and, oscillating between the two points, touched neither. nor had i much time for the clearing of my thoughts, as mr. quinion was to go upon the morrow.

behold me, on the morrow, in a muchworn little white hat, with a black crape round it for my mother, a black jacket, and a pair of hard, stiff corduroy trousers  which miss murdstone considered the best armour for the legs in that fight with the world which was now to come off. behold me so attired, and with my little worldly all before me in a small trunk, sitting, a lone lorn child as mrs.

gummidge might have said, in the postchaise that was carrying mr.

quinion to the london coach at yarmouth see, how our house and church are lessening in the distance how the grave beneath the tree is blotted out by intervening objects how the spire points upwards from my old playground no more, and the sky is empty



chapter 

i begin life on my own account, and dont like it

i know enough of the world now, to have almost lost the capacity of being much surprised by anything but it is matter of some surprise to me, even now, that i can have been so easily thrown away at such an age. a child of excellent abilities, and with strong powers of observation, quick, eager, delicate, and soon hurt bodily or mentally, it seems wonderful to me that nobody should have made any sign in my behalf. but none was made and i became, at ten years old, a little labouring hind in the service of murdstone and grinby.

murdstone and grinbys warehouse was at the waterside. it was down in blackfriars. modern improvements have altered the place but it was the last house at the bottom of a narrow street, curving down hill to the river, with some stairs at the end, where people took boat. it was a crazy old house with a wharf of its own, abutting on the water when the tide was in, and on the mud when the tide was out, and literally overrun with rats. its panelled rooms, discoloured with the dirt and smoke of a hundred years, i dare say its decaying floors and staircase the squeaking and scuffling of the old grey rats down in the cellars and the dirt and rottenness of the place are things, not of many years ago, in my mind, but of the present instant. they are all before me, just as they were in the evil hour when i went among them for the first time, with my trembling hand in mr. quinions.

murdstone and grinbys trade was among a good many kinds of people, but an important branch of it was the supply of wines and spirits to certain packet ships. i forget now where they chiefly went, but i think there were some among them that made voyages both to the east and west indies. i know that a great many empty bottles were one of the consequences of this traffic, and that certain men and boys were employed to examine them against the light, and reject those that were flawed, and to rinse and wash them. when the empty bottles ran short, there were labels to be pasted on full ones, or corks to be fitted to them, or seals to be put upon the corks, or finished bottles to be packed in casks. all this work was my work, and of the boys employed upon it i was one.

there were three or four of us, counting me. my working place was established in a corner of the warehouse, where mr. quinion could see me, when he chose to stand up on the bottom rail of his stool in the countinghouse, and look at me through a window above the desk. hither, on the first morning of my so auspiciously beginning life on my own account, the oldest of the regular boys was summoned to show me my business. his name was mick walker, and he wore a ragged apron and a paper cap. he informed me that his father was a bargeman, and walked, in a black velvet headdress, in the lord mayors show. he also informed me that our principal associate would be another boy whom he introduced by the  to me  extraordinary name of mealy potatoes. i discovered, however, that this youth had not been christened by that name, but that it had been bestowed upon him in the warehouse, on account of his complexion, which was pale or mealy. mealys father was a waterman, who had the additional distinction of being a fireman, and was engaged as such at one of the large theatres where some young relation of mealys  i think his little sister  did imps in the pantomimes.

no words can express the secret agony of my soul as i sunk into this companionship compared these henceforth everyday associates with those of my happier childhood  not to say with steerforth, traddles, and the rest of those boys and felt my hopes of growing up to be a learned and distinguished man, crushed in my bosom. the deep remembrance of the sense i had, of being utterly without hope now of the shame i felt in my position of the misery it was to my young heart to believe that day by day what i had learned, and thought, and delighted in, and raised my fancy and my emulation up by, would pass away from me, little by little, never to be brought back any more cannot be written. as often as mick walker went away in the course of that forenoon, i mingled my tears with the water in which i was washing the bottles and sobbed as if there were a flaw in my own breast, and it were in danger of bursting.

the countinghouse clock was at half past twelve, and there was general preparation for going to dinner, when mr. quinion tapped at the countinghouse window, and beckoned to me to go in. i went in, and found there a stoutish, middleaged person, in a brown surtout and black tights and shoes, with no more hair upon his head which was a large one, and very shining than there is upon an egg, and with a very extensive face, which he turned full upon me. his clothes were shabby, but he had an imposing shirtcollar on. he carried a jaunty sort of a stick, with a large pair of rusty tassels to it and a quizzingglass hung outside his coat,  for ornament, i afterwards found, as he very seldom looked through it, and couldnt see anything when he did.

this, said mr. quinion, in allusion to myself, is he.

this, said the stranger, with a certain condescending roll in his voice, and a certain indescribable air of doing something genteel, which impressed me very much, is master copperfield. i hope i see you well, sir

i said i was very well, and hoped he was. i was sufficiently ill at ease, heaven knows but it was not in my nature to complain much at that time of my life, so i said i was very well, and hoped he was.

i am, said the stranger, thank heaven, quite well. i have received a letter from mr. murdstone, in which he mentions that he would desire me to receive into an apartment in the rear of my house, which is at present unoccupied  and is, in short, to be let as a  in short, said the stranger, with a smile and in a burst of confidence, as a bedroom  the young beginner whom i have now the pleasure to  and the stranger waved his hand, and settled his chin in his shirtcollar.

this is mr. micawber, said mr. quinion to me.

ahem said the stranger, that is my name.

mr. micawber, said mr. quinion, is known to mr. murdstone. he takes orders for us on commission, when he can get any. he has been written to by mr. murdstone, on the subject of your lodgings, and he will receive you as a lodger.

my address, said mr. micawber, is windsor terrace, city road.

i  in short, said mr. micawber, with the same genteel air, and in another burst of confidence  i live there.

i made him a bow.

under the impression, said mr. micawber, that your peregrinations in this metropolis have not as yet been extensive, and that you might have some difficulty in penetrating the arcana of the modern babylon in the direction of the city road,  in short, said mr. micawber, in another burst of confidence, that you might lose yourself  i shall be happy to call this evening, and install you in the knowledge of the nearest way.

i thanked him with all my heart, for it was friendly in him to offer to take that trouble.

at what hour, said mr. micawber, shall i 

at about eight, said mr. quinion.

at about eight, said mr. micawber. i beg to wish you good day, mr. quinion. i will intrude no longer.

so he put on his hat, and went out with his cane under his arm very upright, and humming a tune when he was clear of the countinghouse.

mr. quinion then formally engaged me to be as useful as i could in the warehouse of murdstone and grinby, at a salary, i think, of six shillings a week. i am not clear whether it was six or seven. i am inclined to believe, from my uncertainty on this head, that it was six at first and seven afterwards. he paid me a week down from his own pocket, i believe, and i gave mealy sixpence out of it to get my trunk carried to windsor terrace that night it being too heavy for my strength, small as it was. i paid sixpence more for my dinner, which was a meat pie and a turn at a neighbouring pump and passed the hour which was allowed for that meal, in walking about the streets.

at the appointed time in the evening, mr. micawber reappeared. i washed my hands and face, to do the greater honour to his gentility, and we walked to our house, as i suppose i must now call it, together mr. micawber impressing the name of streets, and the shapes of corner houses upon me, as we went along, that i might find my way back, easily, in the morning.

arrived at this house in windsor terrace which i noticed was shabby like himself, but also, like himself, made all the show it could, he presented me to mrs. micawber, a thin and faded lady, not at all young, who was sitting in the parlour the first floor was altogether unfurnished, and the blinds were kept down to delude the neighbours, with a baby at her breast. this baby was one of twins and i may remark here that i hardly ever, in all my experience of the family, saw both the twins detached from mrs.

micawber at the same time. one of them was always taking refreshment.

there were two other children master micawber, aged about four, and miss micawber, aged about three. these, and a darkcomplexioned young woman, with a habit of snorting, who was servant to the family, and informed me, before half an hour had expired, that she was a orfling, and came from st. lukes workhouse, in the neighbourhood, completed the establishment. my room was at the top of the house, at the back a close chamber stencilled all over with an ornament which my young imagination represented as a blue muffin and very scantily furnished.

i never thought, said mrs. micawber, when she came up, twin and all, to show me the apartment, and sat down to take breath, before i was married, when i lived with papa and mama, that i should ever find it necessary to take a lodger. but mr. micawber being in difficulties, all considerations of private feeling must give way.

i said yes, maam.

mr. micawbers difficulties are almost overwhelming just at present, said mrs. micawber and whether it is possible to bring him through them, i dont know. when i lived at home with papa and mama, i really should have hardly understood what the word meant, in the sense in which i now employ it, but experientia does it,  as papa used to say.

i cannot satisfy myself whether she told me that mr. micawber had been an officer in the marines, or whether i have imagined it. i only know that i believe to this hour that he was in the marines once upon a time, without knowing why. he was a sort of town traveller for a number of miscellaneous houses, now but made little or nothing of it, i am afraid.

if mr. micawbers creditors will not give him time, said mrs.

micawber, they must take the consequences and the sooner they bring it to an issue the better. blood cannot be obtained from a stone, neither can anything on account be obtained at present not to mention law expenses from mr. micawber.

i never can quite understand whether my precocious selfdependence confused mrs. micawber in reference to my age, or whether she was so full of the subject that she would have talked about it to the very twins if there had been nobody else to communicate with, but this was the strain in which she began, and she went on accordingly all the time i knew her.

poor mrs. micawber she said she had tried to exert herself, and so, i have no doubt, she had. the centre of the street door was perfectly covered with a great brassplate, on which was engraved mrs. micawbers boarding establishment for young ladies but i never found that any young lady had ever been to school there or that any young lady ever came, or proposed to come or that the least preparation was ever made to receive any young lady. the only visitors i ever saw, or heard of, were creditors. they used to come at all hours, and some of them were quite ferocious. one dirtyfaced man, i think he was a bootmaker, used to edge himself into the passage as early as seven oclock in the morning, and call up the stairs to mr. micawber  come you aint out yet, you know. pay us, will you dont hide, you know thats mean. i wouldnt be mean if i was you. pay us, will you you just pay us, dye hear come receiving no answer to these taunts, he would mount in his wrath to the words swindlers and robbers and these being ineffectual too, would sometimes go to the extremity of crossing the street, and roaring up at the windows of the second floor, where he knew mr. micawber was. at these times, mr.

micawber would be transported with grief and mortification, even to the length as i was once made aware by a scream from his wife of making motions at himself with a razor but within halfanhour afterwards, he would polish up his shoes with extraordinary pains, and go out, humming a tune with a greater air of gentility than ever. mrs. micawber was quite as elastic. i have known her to be thrown into fainting fits by the kings taxes at three oclock, and to eat lamb chops, breaded, and drink warm ale paid for with two teaspoons that had gone to the pawnbrokers at four. on one occasion, when an execution had just been put in, coming home through some chance as early as six oclock, i saw her lying of course with a twin under the grate in a swoon, with her hair all torn about her face but i never knew her more cheerful than she was, that very same night, over a veal cutlet before the kitchen fire, telling me stories about her papa and mama, and the company they used to keep.

in this house, and with this family, i passed my leisure time. my own exclusive breakfast of a penny loaf and a pennyworth of milk, i provided myself. i kept another small loaf, and a modicum of cheese, on a particular shelf of a particular cupboard, to make my supper on when i came back at night. this made a hole in the six or seven shillings, i know well and i was out at the warehouse all day, and had to support myself on that money all the week. from monday morning until saturday night, i had no advice, no counsel, no encouragement, no consolation, no assistance, no support, of any kind, from anyone, that i can call to mind, as i hope to go to heaven

i was so young and childish, and so little qualified  how could i be otherwise  to undertake the whole charge of my own existence, that often, in going to murdstone and grinbys, of a morning, i could not resist the stale pastry put out for sale at halfprice at the pastrycooks doors, and spent in that the money i should have kept for my dinner. then, i went without my dinner, or bought a roll or a slice of pudding. i remember two pudding shops, between which i was divided, according to my finances. one was in a court close to st. martins church  at the back of the church,  which is now removed altogether. the pudding at that shop was made of currants, and was rather a special pudding, but was dear, twopennyworth not being larger than a pennyworth of more ordinary pudding. a good shop for the latter was in the strand  somewhere in that part which has been rebuilt since. it was a stout pale pudding, heavy and flabby, and with great flat raisins in it, stuck in whole at wide distances apart. it came up hot at about my time every day, and many a day did i dine off it. when i dined regularly and handsomely, i had a saveloy and a penny loaf, or a fourpenny plate of red beef from a cooks shop or a plate of bread and cheese and a glass of beer, from a miserable old publichouse opposite our place of business, called the lion, or the lion and something else that i have forgotten. once, i remember carrying my own bread which i had brought from home in the morning under my arm, wrapped in a piece of paper, like a book, and going to a famous alamode beefhouse near drury lane, and ordering a small plate of that delicacy to eat with it. what the waiter thought of such a strange little apparition coming in all alone, i dont know but i can see him now, staring at me as i ate my dinner, and bringing up the other waiter to look. i gave him a halfpenny for himself, and i wish he hadnt taken it.

we had halfanhour, i think, for tea. when i had money enough, i used to get halfapint of readymade coffee and a slice of bread and butter. when i had none, i used to look at a venison shop in fleet street or i have strolled, at such a time, as far as covent garden market, and stared at the pineapples. i was fond of wandering about the adelphi, because it was a mysterious place, with those dark arches. i see myself emerging one evening from some of these arches, on a little publichouse close to the river, with an open space before it, where some coalheavers were dancing to look at whom i sat down upon a bench. i wonder what they thought of me

i was such a child, and so little, that frequently when i went into the bar of a strange publichouse for a glass of ale or porter, to moisten what i had had for dinner, they were afraid to give it me.

i remember one hot evening i went into the bar of a publichouse, and said to the landlord what is your best  your very best  ale a glass for it was a special occasion. i dont know what. it may have been my birthday.

twopencehalfpenny, says the landlord, is the price of the genuine stunning ale.

then, says i, producing the money, just draw me a glass of the genuine stunning, if you please, with a good head to it.

the landlord looked at me in return over the bar, from head to foot, with a strange smile on his face and instead of drawing the beer, looked round the screen and said something to his wife. she came out from behind it, with her work in her hand, and joined him in surveying me. here we stand, all three, before me now. the landlord in his shirtsleeves, leaning against the bar windowframe his wife looking over the little halfdoor and i, in some confusion, looking up at them from outside the partition.

they asked me a good many questions as, what my name was, how old i was, where i lived, how i was employed, and how i came there. to all of which, that i might commit nobody, i invented, i am afraid, appropriate answers. they served me with the ale, though i suspect it was not the genuine stunning and the landlords wife, opening the little halfdoor of the bar, and bending down, gave me my money back, and gave me a kiss that was half admiring and half compassionate, but all womanly and good, i am sure.

i know i do not exaggerate, unconsciously and unintentionally, the scantiness of my resources or the difficulties of my life. i know that if a shilling were given me by mr. quinion at any time, i spent it in a dinner or a tea. i know that i worked, from morning until night, with common men and boys, a shabby child. i know that i lounged about the streets, insufficiently and unsatisfactorily fed. i know that, but for the mercy of god, i might easily have been, for any care that was taken of me, a little robber or a little vagabond.

yet i held some station at murdstone and grinbys too. besides that mr. quinion did what a careless man so occupied, and dealing with a thing so anomalous, could, to treat me as one upon a different footing from the rest, i never said, to man or boy, how it was that i came to be there, or gave the least indication of being sorry that i was there. that i suffered in secret, and that i suffered exquisitely, no one ever knew but i. how much i suffered, it is, as i have said already, utterly beyond my power to tell. but i kept my own counsel, and i did my work. i knew from the first, that, if i could not do my work as well as any of the rest, i could not hold myself above slight and contempt. i soon became at least as expeditious and as skilful as either of the other boys. though perfectly familiar with them, my conduct and manner were different enough from theirs to place a space between us. they and the men generally spoke of me as the little gent, or the young suffolker. a certain man named gregory, who was foreman of the packers, and another named tipp, who was the carman, and wore a red jacket, used to address me sometimes as david but i think it was mostly when we were very confidential, and when i had made some efforts to entertain them, over our work, with some results of the old readings which were fast perishing out of my remembrance. mealy potatoes uprose once, and rebelled against my being so distinguished but mick walker settled him in no time.

my rescue from this kind of existence i considered quite hopeless, and abandoned, as such, altogether. i am solemnly convinced that i never for one hour was reconciled to it, or was otherwise than miserably unhappy but i bore it and even to peggotty, partly for the love of her and partly for shame, never in any letter though many passed between us revealed the truth.

mr. micawbers difficulties were an addition to the distressed state of my mind. in my forlorn state i became quite attached to the family, and used to walk about, busy with mrs. micawbers calculations of ways and means, and heavy with the weight of mr.

micawbers debts. on a saturday night, which was my grand treat,  partly because it was a great thing to walk home with six or seven shillings in my pocket, looking into the shops and thinking what such a sum would buy, and partly because i went home early,  mrs. micawber would make the most heartrending confidences to me also on a sunday morning, when i mixed the portion of tea or coffee i had bought overnight, in a little shavingpot, and sat late at my breakfast. it was nothing at all unusual for mr. micawber to sob violently at the beginning of one of these saturday night conversations, and sing about jacks delight being his lovely nan, towards the end of it. i have known him come home to supper with a flood of tears, and a declaration that nothing was now left but a jail and go to bed making a calculation of the expense of putting bowwindows to the house, in case anything turned up, which was his favourite expression. and mrs. micawber was just the same.

a curious equality of friendship, originating, i suppose, in our respective circumstances, sprung up between me and these people, notwithstanding the ludicrous disparity in our years. but i never allowed myself to be prevailed upon to accept any invitation to eat and drink with them out of their stock knowing that they got on badly with the butcher and baker, and had often not too much for themselves, until mrs. micawber took me into her entire confidence. this she did one evening as follows master copperfield, said mrs. micawber, i make no stranger of you, and therefore do not hesitate to say that mr. micawbers difficulties are coming to a crisis.

it made me very miserable to hear it, and i looked at mrs.

micawbers red eyes with the utmost sympathy.

with the exception of the heel of a dutch cheese  which is not adapted to the wants of a young family  said mrs. micawber, there is really not a scrap of anything in the larder. i was accustomed to speak of the larder when i lived with papa and mama, and i use the word almost unconsciously. what i mean to express is, that there is nothing to eat in the house.

dear me i said, in great concern.

i had two or three shillings of my weeks money in my pocket  from which i presume that it must have been on a wednesday night when we held this conversation  and i hastily produced them, and with heartfelt emotion begged mrs. micawber to accept of them as a loan.

but that lady, kissing me, and making me put them back in my pocket, replied that she couldnt think of it.

no, my dear master copperfield, said she, far be it from my thoughts but you have a discretion beyond your years, and can render me another kind of service, if you will and a service i will thankfully accept of.

i begged mrs. micawber to name it.

i have parted with the plate myself, said mrs. micawber. six tea, two salt, and a pair of sugars, i have at different times borrowed money on, in secret, with my own hands. but the twins are a great tie and to me, with my recollections, of papa and mama, these transactions are very painful. there are still a few trifles that we could part with. mr. micawbers feelings would never allow him to dispose of them and clickett  this was the girl from the workhouse  being of a vulgar mind, would take painful liberties if so much confidence was reposed in her. master copperfield, if i might ask you 

i understood mrs. micawber now, and begged her to make use of me to any extent. i began to dispose of the more portable articles of property that very evening and went out on a similar expedition almost every morning, before i went to murdstone and grinbys.

mr. micawber had a few books on a little chiffonier, which he called the library and those went first. i carried them, one after another, to a bookstall in the city road  one part of which, near our house, was almost all bookstalls and bird shops then  and sold them for whatever they would bring. the keeper of this bookstall, who lived in a little house behind it, used to get tipsy every night, and to be violently scolded by his wife every morning.

more than once, when i went there early, i had audience of him in a turnup bedstead, with a cut in his forehead or a black eye, bearing witness to his excesses overnight i am afraid he was quarrelsome in his drink, and he, with a shaking hand, endeavouring to find the needful shillings in one or other of the pockets of his clothes, which lay upon the floor, while his wife, with a baby in her arms and her shoes down at heel, never left off rating him. sometimes he had lost his money, and then he would ask me to call again but his wife had always got some  had taken his, i dare say, while he was drunk  and secretly completed the bargain on the stairs, as we went down together.

at the pawnbrokers shop, too, i began to be very well known. the principal gentleman who officiated behind the counter, took a good deal of notice of me and often got me, i recollect, to decline a latin noun or adjective, or to conjugate a latin verb, in his ear, while he transacted my business. after all these occasions mrs.

micawber made a little treat, which was generally a supper and there was a peculiar relish in these meals which i well remember.

at last mr. micawbers difficulties came to a crisis, and he was arrested early one morning, and carried over to the kings bench prison in the borough. he told me, as he went out of the house, that the god of day had now gone down upon him  and i really thought his heart was broken and mine too. but i heard, afterwards, that he was seen to play a lively game at skittles, before noon.

on the first sunday after he was taken there, i was to go and see him, and have dinner with him. i was to ask my way to such a place, and just short of that place i should see such another place, and just short of that i should see a yard, which i was to cross, and keep straight on until i saw a turnkey. all this i did and when at last i did see a turnkey poor little fellow that i was, and thought how, when roderick random was in a debtors prison, there was a man there with nothing on him but an old rug, the turnkey swam before my dimmed eyes and my beating heart.

mr. micawber was waiting for me within the gate, and we went up to his room top story but one, and cried very much. he solemnly conjured me, i remember, to take warning by his fate and to observe that if a man had twenty pounds ayear for his income, and spent nineteen pounds nineteen shillings and sixpence, he would be happy, but that if he spent twenty pounds one he would be miserable. after which he borrowed a shilling of me for porter, gave me a written order on mrs. micawber for the amount, and put away his pockethandkerchief, and cheered up.

we sat before a little fire, with two bricks put within the rusted grate, one on each side, to prevent its burning too many coals until another debtor, who shared the room with mr. micawber, came in from the bakehouse with the loin of mutton which was our jointstock repast. then i was sent up to captain hopkins in the room overhead, with mr. micawbers compliments, and i was his young friend, and would captain hopkins lend me a knife and fork.

captain hopkins lent me the knife and fork, with his compliments to mr. micawber. there was a very dirty lady in his little room, and two wan girls, his daughters, with shock heads of hair. i thought it was better to borrow captain hopkinss knife and fork, than captain hopkinss comb. the captain himself was in the last extremity of shabbiness, with large whiskers, and an old, old brown greatcoat with no other coat below it. i saw his bed rolled up in a corner and what plates and dishes and pots he had, on a shelf and i divined god knows how that though the two girls with the shock heads of hair were captain hopkinss children, the dirty lady was not married to captain hopkins. my timid station on his threshold was not occupied more than a couple of minutes at most but i came down again with all this in my knowledge, as surely as the knife and fork were in my hand.

there was something gipsylike and agreeable in the dinner, after all. i took back captain hopkinss knife and fork early in the afternoon, and went home to comfort mrs. micawber with an account of my visit. she fainted when she saw me return, and made a little jug of egghot afterwards to console us while we talked it over.

i dont know how the household furniture came to be sold for the family benefit, or who sold it, except that i did not. sold it was, however, and carried away in a van except the bed, a few chairs, and the kitchen table. with these possessions we encamped, as it were, in the two parlours of the emptied house in windsor terrace mrs. micawber, the children, the orfling, and myself and lived in those rooms night and day. i have no idea for how long, though it seems to me for a long time. at last mrs. micawber resolved to move into the prison, where mr. micawber had now secured a room to himself. so i took the key of the house to the landlord, who was very glad to get it and the beds were sent over to the kings bench, except mine, for which a little room was hired outside the walls in the neighbourhood of that institution, very much to my satisfaction, since the micawbers and i had become too used to one another, in our troubles, to part. the orfling was likewise accommodated with an inexpensive lodging in the same neighbourhood. mine was a quiet backgarret with a sloping roof, commanding a pleasant prospect of a timberyard and when i took possession of it, with the reflection that mr. micawbers troubles had come to a crisis at last, i thought it quite a paradise.

all this time i was working at murdstone and grinbys in the same common way, and with the same common companions, and with the same sense of unmerited degradation as at first. but i never, happily for me no doubt, made a single acquaintance, or spoke to any of the many boys whom i saw daily in going to the warehouse, in coming from it, and in prowling about the streets at mealtimes. i led the same secretly unhappy life but i led it in the same lonely, selfreliant manner. the only changes i am conscious of are, firstly, that i had grown more shabby, and secondly, that i was now relieved of much of the weight of mr. and mrs. micawbers cares for some relatives or friends had engaged to help them at their present pass, and they lived more comfortably in the prison than they had lived for a long while out of it. i used to breakfast with them now, in virtue of some arrangement, of which i have forgotten the details. i forget, too, at what hour the gates were opened in the morning, admitting of my going in but i know that i was often up at six oclock, and that my favourite loungingplace in the interval was old london bridge, where i was wont to sit in one of the stone recesses, watching the people going by, or to look over the balustrades at the sun shining in the water, and lighting up the golden flame on the top of the monument. the orfling met me here sometimes, to be told some astonishing fictions respecting the wharves and the tower of which i can say no more than that i hope i believed them myself. in the evening i used to go back to the prison, and walk up and down the parade with mr. micawber or play casino with mrs. micawber, and hear reminiscences of her papa and mama. whether mr. murdstone knew where i was, i am unable to say.

i never told them at murdstone and grinbys.

mr. micawbers affairs, although past their crisis, were very much involved by reason of a certain deed, of which i used to hear a great deal, and which i suppose, now, to have been some former composition with his creditors, though i was so far from being clear about it then, that i am conscious of having confounded it with those demoniacal parchments which are held to have, once upon a time, obtained to a great extent in germany. at last this document appeared to be got out of the way, somehow at all events it ceased to be the rockahead it had been and mrs. micawber informed me that her family had decided that mr. micawber should apply for his release under the insolvent debtors act, which would set him free, she expected, in about six weeks.

and then, said mr. micawber, who was present, i have no doubt i shall, please heaven, begin to be beforehand with the world, and to live in a perfectly new manner, if  in short, if anything turns up.

by way of going in for anything that might be on the cards, i call to mind that mr. micawber, about this time, composed a petition to the house of commons, praying for an alteration in the law of imprisonment for debt. i set down this remembrance here, because it is an instance to myself of the manner in which i fitted my old books to my altered life, and made stories for myself, out of the streets, and out of men and women and how some main points in the character i shall unconsciously develop, i suppose, in writing my life, were gradually forming all this while.

there was a club in the prison, in which mr. micawber, as a gentleman, was a great authority. mr. micawber had stated his idea of this petition to the club, and the club had strongly approved of the same. wherefore mr. micawber who was a thoroughly goodnatured man, and as active a creature about everything but his own affairs as ever existed, and never so happy as when he was busy about something that could never be of any profit to him set to work at the petition, invented it, engrossed it on an immense sheet of paper, spread it out on a table, and appointed a time for all the club, and all within the walls if they chose, to come up to his room and sign it.

when i heard of this approaching ceremony, i was so anxious to see them all come in, one after another, though i knew the greater part of them already, and they me, that i got an hours leave of absence from murdstone and grinbys, and established myself in a corner for that purpose. as many of the principal members of the club as could be got into the small room without filling it, supported mr.

micawber in front of the petition, while my old friend captain hopkins who had washed himself, to do honour to so solemn an occasion stationed himself close to it, to read it to all who were unacquainted with its contents. the door was then thrown open, and the general population began to come in, in a long file several waiting outside, while one entered, affixed his signature, and went out. to everybody in succession, captain hopkins said have you read it  no.  would you like to hear it read if he weakly showed the least disposition to hear it, captain hopkins, in a loud sonorous voice, gave him every word of it. the captain would have read it twenty thousand times, if twenty thousand people would have heard him, one by one. i remember a certain luscious roll he gave to such phrases as the peoples representatives in parliament assembled, your petitioners therefore humbly approach your honourable house, his gracious majestys unfortunate subjects, as if the words were something real in his mouth, and delicious to taste mr. micawber, meanwhile, listening with a little of an authors vanity, and contemplating not severely the spikes on the opposite wall.

as i walked to and fro daily between southwark and blackfriars, and lounged about at mealtimes in obscure streets, the stones of which may, for anything i know, be worn at this moment by my childish feet, i wonder how many of these people were wanting in the crowd that used to come filing before me in review again, to the echo of captain hopkinss voice when my thoughts go back, now, to that slow agony of my youth, i wonder how much of the histories i invented for such people hangs like a mist of fancy over wellremembered facts when i tread the old ground, i do not wonder that i seem to see and pity, going on before me, an innocent romantic boy, making his imaginative world out of such strange experiences and sordid things



chapter 

liking life on my own account no better, i form a great resolution

in due time, mr. micawbers petition was ripe for hearing and that gentleman was ordered to be discharged under the act, to my great joy. his creditors were not implacable and mrs. micawber informed me that even the revengeful bootmaker had declared in open court that he bore him no malice, but that when money was owing to him he liked to be paid. he said he thought it was human nature.

m r micawber returned to the kings bench when his case was over, as some fees were to be settled, and some formalities observed, before he could be actually released. the club received him with transport, and held an harmonic meeting that evening in his honour while mrs. micawber and i had a lambs fry in private, surrounded by the sleeping family.

on such an occasion i will give you, master copperfield, said mrs. micawber, in a little more flip, for we had been having some already, the memory of my papa and mama.

are they dead, maam i inquired, after drinking the toast in a wineglass.

my mama departed this life, said mrs. micawber, before mr.

micawbers difficulties commenced, or at least before they became pressing. my papa lived to bail mr. micawber several times, and then expired, regretted by a numerous circle.

mrs. micawber shook her head, and dropped a pious tear upon the twin who happened to be in hand.

as i could hardly hope for a more favourable opportunity of putting a question in which i had a near interest, i said to mrs. micawber may i ask, maam, what you and mr. micawber intend to do, now that mr. micawber is out of his difficulties, and at liberty have you settled yet

my family, said mrs. micawber, who always said those two words with an air, though i never could discover who came under the denomination, my family are of opinion that mr. micawber should quit london, and exert his talents in the country. mr. micawber is a man of great talent, master copperfield.

i said i was sure of that.

of great talent, repeated mrs. micawber. my family are of opinion, that, with a little interest, something might be done for a man of his ability in the custom house. the influence of my family being local, it is their wish that mr. micawber should go down to plymouth. they think it indispensable that he should be upon the spot.

that he may be ready i suggested.

exactly, returned mrs. micawber. that he may be ready  in case of anything turning up.

and do you go too, maam

the events of the day, in combination with the twins, if not with the flip, had made mrs. micawber hysterical, and she shed tears as she replied i never will desert mr. micawber. mr. micawber may have concealed his difficulties from me in the first instance, but his sanguine temper may have led him to expect that he would overcome them. the pearl necklace and bracelets which i inherited from mama, have been disposed of for less than half their value and the set of coral, which was the wedding gift of my papa, has been actually thrown away for nothing. but i never will desert mr. micawber. no cried mrs. micawber, more affected than before, i never will do it its of no use asking me

i felt quite uncomfortable  as if mrs. micawber supposed i had asked her to do anything of the sort  and sat looking at her in alarm.

mr. micawber has his faults. i do not deny that he is improvident. i do not deny that he has kept me in the dark as to his resources and his liabilities both, she went on, looking at the wall but i never will desert mr. micawber

mrs. micawber having now raised her voice into a perfect scream, i was so frightened that i ran off to the clubroom, and disturbed mr. micawber in the act of presiding at a long table, and leading the chorus of gee up, dobbin, gee ho, dobbin, gee up, dobbin, gee up, and gee ho  o  o with the tidings that mrs. micawber was in an alarming state, upon which he immediately burst into tears, and came away with me with his waistcoat full of the heads and tails of shrimps, of which he had been partaking.

emma, my angel cried mr. micawber, running into the room what is the matter

i never will desert you, micawber she exclaimed.

my life said mr. micawber, taking her in his arms. i am perfectly aware of it.

he is the parent of my children he is the father of my twins

he is the husband of my affections, cried mrs. micawber, struggling and i ne  ver  will  desert mr. micawber

mr. micawber was so deeply affected by this proof of her devotion as to me, i was dissolved in tears, that he hung over her in a passionate manner, imploring her to look up, and to be calm. but the more he asked mrs. micawber to look up, the more she fixed her eyes on nothing and the more he asked her to compose herself, the more she wouldnt. consequently mr. micawber was soon so overcome, that he mingled his tears with hers and mine until he begged me to do him the favour of taking a chair on the staircase, while he got her into bed. i would have taken my leave for the night, but he would not hear of my doing that until the strangers bell should ring. so i sat at the staircase window, until he came out with another chair and joined me.

how is mrs. micawber now, sir i said.

very low, said mr. micawber, shaking his head reaction. ah, this has been a dreadful day we stand alone now  everything is gone from us

mr. micawber pressed my hand, and groaned, and afterwards shed tears. i was greatly touched, and disappointed too, for i had expected that we should be quite gay on this happy and longlookedfor occasion. but mr. and mrs. micawber were so used to their old difficulties, i think, that they felt quite shipwrecked when they came to consider that they were released from them. all their elasticity was departed, and i never saw them half so wretched as on this night insomuch that when the bell rang, and mr. micawber walked with me to the lodge, and parted from me there with a blessing, i felt quite afraid to leave him by himself, he was so profoundly miserable.

but through all the confusion and lowness of spirits in which we had been, so unexpectedly to me, involved, i plainly discerned that mr. and mrs. micawber and their family were going away from london, and that a parting between us was near at hand. it was in my walk home that night, and in the sleepless hours which followed when i lay in bed, that the thought first occurred to me  though i dont know how it came into my head  which afterwards shaped itself into a settled resolution.

i had grown to be so accustomed to the micawbers, and had been so intimate with them in their distresses, and was so utterly friendless without them, that the prospect of being thrown upon some new shift for a lodging, and going once more among unknown people, was like being that moment turned adrift into my present life, with such a knowledge of it ready made as experience had given me. all the sensitive feelings it wounded so cruelly, all the shame and misery it kept alive within my breast, became more poignant as i thought of this and i determined that the life was unendurable.

that there was no hope of escape from it, unless the escape was my own act, i knew quite well. i rarely heard from miss murdstone, and never from mr. murdstone but two or three parcels of made or mended clothes had come up for me, consigned to mr. quinion, and in each there was a scrap of paper to the effect that j. m. trusted d.

c. was applying himself to business, and devoting himself wholly to his duties  not the least hint of my ever being anything else than the common drudge into which i was fast settling down.

the very next day showed me, while my mind was in the first agitation of what it had conceived, that mrs. micawber had not spoken of their going away without warrant. they took a lodging in the house where i lived, for a week at the expiration of which time they were to start for plymouth. mr. micawber himself came down to the countinghouse, in the afternoon, to tell mr. quinion that he must relinquish me on the day of his departure, and to give me a high character, which i am sure i deserved. and mr. quinion, calling in tipp the carman, who was a married man, and had a room to let, quartered me prospectively on him  by our mutual consent, as he had every reason to think for i said nothing, though my resolution was now taken.

i passed my evenings with mr. and mrs. micawber, during the remaining term of our residence under the same roof and i think we became fonder of one another as the time went on. on the last sunday, they invited me to dinner and we had a loin of pork and apple sauce, and a pudding. i had bought a spotted wooden horse overnight as a parting gift to little wilkins micawber  that was the boy  and a doll for little emma. i had also bestowed a shilling on the orfling, who was about to be disbanded.

we had a very pleasant day, though we were all in a tender state about our approaching separation.

i shall never, master copperfield, said mrs. micawber, revert to the period when mr. micawber was in difficulties, without thinking of you. your conduct has always been of the most delicate and obliging description. you have never been a lodger. you have been a friend.

my dear, said mr. micawber copperfield, for so he had been accustomed to call me, of late, has a heart to feel for the distresses of his fellowcreatures when they are behind a cloud, and a head to plan, and a hand to  in short, a general ability to dispose of such available property as could be made away with.

i expressed my sense of this commendation, and said i was very sorry we were going to lose one another.

my dear young friend, said mr. micawber, i am older than you a man of some experience in life, and  and of some experience, in short, in difficulties, generally speaking. at present, and until something turns up which i am, i may say, hourly expecting, i have nothing to bestow but advice. still my advice is so far worth taking, that  in short, that i have never taken it myself, and am the  here mr. micawber, who had been beaming and smiling, all over his head and face, up to the present moment, checked himself and frowned  the miserable wretch you behold.

my dear micawber urged his wife.

i say, returned mr. micawber, quite forgetting himself, and smiling again, the miserable wretch you behold. my advice is, never do tomorrow what you can do today. procrastination is the thief of time. collar him

my poor papas maxim, mrs. micawber observed.

my dear, said mr. micawber, your papa was very well in his way, and heaven forbid that i should disparage him. take him for all in all, we neer shall  in short, make the acquaintance, probably, of anybody else possessing, at his time of life, the same legs for gaiters, and able to read the same description of print, without spectacles. but he applied that maxim to our marriage, my dear and that was so far prematurely entered into, in consequence, that i never recovered the expense. mr. micawber looked aside at mrs.

micawber, and added not that i am sorry for it. quite the contrary, my love. after which, he was grave for a minute or so.

my other piece of advice, copperfield, said mr. micawber, you know. annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure nineteen nineteen and six, result happiness. annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure twenty pounds ought and six, result misery. the blossom is blighted, the leaf is withered, the god of day goes down upon the dreary scene, and  and in short you are for ever floored.

as i am

to make his example the more impressive, mr. micawber drank a glass of punch with an air of great enjoyment and satisfaction, and whistled the college hornpipe.

i did not fail to assure him that i would store these precepts in my mind, though indeed i had no need to do so, for, at the time, they affected me visibly. next morning i met the whole family at the coach office, and saw them, with a desolate heart, take their places outside, at the back.

master copperfield, said mrs. micawber, god bless you i never can forget all that, you know, and i never would if i could.

copperfield, said mr. micawber, farewell every happiness and prosperity if, in the progress of revolving years, i could persuade myself that my blighted destiny had been a warning to you, i should feel that i had not occupied another mans place in existence altogether in vain. in case of anything turning up of which i am rather confident, i shall be extremely happy if it should be in my power to improve your prospects.

i think, as mrs. micawber sat at the back of the coach, with the children, and i stood in the road looking wistfully at them, a mist cleared from her eyes, and she saw what a little creature i really was. i think so, because she beckoned to me to climb up, with quite a new and motherly expression in her face, and put her arm round my neck, and gave me just such a kiss as she might have given to her own boy. i had barely time to get down again before the coach started, and i could hardly see the family for the handkerchiefs they waved. it was gone in a minute. the orfling and i stood looking vacantly at each other in the middle of the road, and then shook hands and said goodbye she going back, i suppose, to st. lukes workhouse, as i went to begin my weary day at murdstone and grinbys.

but with no intention of passing many more weary days there. no.

i had resolved to run away.  to go, by some means or other, down into the country, to the only relation i had in the world, and tell my story to my aunt, miss betsey.

i have already observed that i dont know how this desperate idea came into my brain. but, once there, it remained there and hardened into a purpose than which i have never entertained a more determined purpose in my life. i am far from sure that i believed there was anything hopeful in it, but my mind was thoroughly made up that it must be carried into execution.

again, and again, and a hundred times again, since the night when the thought had first occurred to me and banished sleep, i had gone over that old story of my poor mothers about my birth, which it had been one of my great delights in the old time to hear her tell, and which i knew by heart. my aunt walked into that story, and walked out of it, a dread and awful personage but there was one little trait in her behaviour which i liked to dwell on, and which gave me some faint shadow of encouragement. i could not forget how my mother had thought that she felt her touch her pretty hair with no ungentle hand and though it might have been altogether my mothers fancy, and might have had no foundation whatever in fact, i made a little picture, out of it, of my terrible aunt relenting towards the girlish beauty that i recollected so well and loved so much, which softened the whole narrative. it is very possible that it had been in my mind a long time, and had gradually engendered my determination.

as i did not even know where miss betsey lived, i wrote a long letter to peggotty, and asked her, incidentally, if she remembered pretending that i had heard of such a lady living at a certain place i named at random, and had a curiosity to know if it were the same. in the course of that letter, i told peggotty that i had a particular occasion for half a guinea and that if she could lend me that sum until i could repay it, i should be very much obliged to her, and would tell her afterwards what i had wanted it for.

peggottys answer soon arrived, and was, as usual, full of affectionate devotion. she enclosed the half guinea i was afraid she must have had a world of trouble to get it out of mr. barkiss box, and told me that miss betsey lived near dover, but whether at dover itself, at hythe, sandgate, or folkestone, she could not say.

one of our men, however, informing me on my asking him about these places, that they were all close together, i deemed this enough for my object, and resolved to set out at the end of that week.

being a very honest little creature, and unwilling to disgrace the memory i was going to leave behind me at murdstone and grinbys, i considered myself bound to remain until saturday night and, as i had been paid a weeks wages in advance when i first came there, not to present myself in the countinghouse at the usual hour, to receive my stipend. for this express reason, i had borrowed the halfguinea, that i might not be without a fund for my travellingexpenses. accordingly, when the saturday night came, and we were all waiting in the warehouse to be paid, and tipp the carman, who always took precedence, went in first to draw his money, i shook mick walker by the hand asked him, when it came to his turn to be paid, to say to mr. quinion that i had gone to move my box to tipps and, bidding a last good night to mealy potatoes, ran away.

my box was at my old lodging, over the water, and i had written a direction for it on the back of one of our address cards that we nailed on the casks master david, to be left till called for, at the coach office, dover. this i had in my pocket ready to put on the box, after i should have got it out of the house and as i went towards my lodging, i looked about me for someone who would help me to carry it to the bookingoffice.

there was a longlegged young man with a very little empty donkeycart, standing near the obelisk, in the blackfriars road, whose eye i caught as i was going by, and who, addressing me as sixpennorth of bad hapence, hoped i should know him agin to swear to  in allusion, i have no doubt, to my staring at him. i stopped to assure him that i had not done so in bad manners, but uncertain whether he might or might not like a job.

wot job said the longlegged young man.

to move a box, i answered.

wot box said the longlegged young man.

i told him mine, which was down that street there, and which i wanted him to take to the dover coach office for sixpence.

done with you for a tanner said the longlegged young man, and directly got upon his cart, which was nothing but a large wooden tray on wheels, and rattled away at such a rate, that it was as much as i could do to keep pace with the donkey.

there was a defiant manner about this young man, and particularly about the way in which he chewed straw as he spoke to me, that i did not much like as the bargain was made, however, i took him upstairs to the room i was leaving, and we brought the box down, and put it on his cart. now, i was unwilling to put the directioncard on there, lest any of my landlords family should fathom what i was doing, and detain me so i said to the young man that i would be glad if he would stop for a minute, when he came to the deadwall of the kings bench prison. the words were no sooner out of my mouth, than he rattled away as if he, my box, the cart, and the donkey, were all equally mad and i was quite out of breath with running and calling after him, when i caught him at the place appointed.

being much flushed and excited, i tumbled my halfguinea out of my pocket in pulling the card out. i put it in my mouth for safety, and though my hands trembled a good deal, had just tied the card on very much to my satisfaction, when i felt myself violently chucked under the chin by the longlegged young man, and saw my halfguinea fly out of my mouth into his hand.

wot said the young man, seizing me by my jacket collar, with a frightful grin. this is a pollis case, is it youre agoing to bolt, are you come to the pollis, you young warmin, come to the pollis

you give me my money back, if you please, said i, very much frightened and leave me alone.

come to the pollis said the young man. you shall prove it yourn to the pollis.

give me my box and money, will you, i cried, bursting into tears.

the young man still replied come to the pollis and was dragging me against the donkey in a violent manner, as if there were any affinity between that animal and a magistrate, when he changed his mind, jumped into the cart, sat upon my box, and, exclaiming that he would drive to the pollis straight, rattled away harder than ever.

i ran after him as fast as i could, but i had no breath to call out with, and should not have dared to call out, now, if i had. i narrowly escaped being run over, twenty times at least, in half a mile. now i lost him, now i saw him, now i lost him, now i was cut at with a whip, now shouted at, now down in the mud, now up again, now running into somebodys arms, now running headlong at a post.

at length, confused by fright and heat, and doubting whether half london might not by this time be turning out for my apprehension, i left the young man to go where he would with my box and money and, panting and crying, but never stopping, faced about for greenwich, which i had understood was on the dover road taking very little more out of the world, towards the retreat of my aunt, miss betsey, than i had brought into it, on the night when my arrival gave her so much umbrage.



chapter 

the sequel of my resolution

for anything i know, i may have had some wild idea of running all the way to dover, when i gave up the pursuit of the young man with the donkeycart, and started for greenwich. my scattered senses were soon collected as to that point, if i had for i came to a stop in the kent road, at a terrace with a piece of water before it, and a great foolish image in the middle, blowing a dry shell.

here i sat down on a doorstep, quite spent and exhausted with the efforts i had already made, and with hardly breath enough to cry for the loss of my box and halfguinea.

it was by this time dark i heard the clocks strike ten, as i sat resting. but it was a summer night, fortunately, and fine weather.

when i had recovered my breath, and had got rid of a stifling sensation in my throat, i rose up and went on. in the midst of my distress, i had no notion of going back. i doubt if i should have had any, though there had been a swiss snowdrift in the kent road.

but my standing possessed of only threehalfpence in the world and i am sure i wonder how they came to be left in my pocket on a saturday night troubled me none the less because i went on. i began to picture to myself, as a scrap of newspaper intelligence, my being found dead in a day or two, under some hedge and i trudged on miserably, though as fast as i could, until i happened to pass a little shop, where it was written up that ladies and gentlemens wardrobes were bought, and that the best price was given for rags, bones, and kitchenstuff. the master of this shop was sitting at the door in his shirtsleeves, smoking and as there were a great many coats and pairs of trousers dangling from the low ceiling, and only two feeble candles burning inside to show what they were, i fancied that he looked like a man of a revengeful disposition, who had hung all his enemies, and was enjoying himself.

my late experiences with mr. and mrs. micawber suggested to me that here might be a means of keeping off the wolf for a little while.

i went up the next bystreet, took off my waistcoat, rolled it neatly under my arm, and came back to the shop door.

if you please, sir, i said, i am to sell this for a fair price.

mr. dolloby  dolloby was the name over the shop door, at least  took the waistcoat, stood his pipe on its head, against the doorpost, went into the shop, followed by me, snuffed the two candles with his fingers, spread the waistcoat on the counter, and looked at it there, held it up against the light, and looked at it there, and ultimately said what do you call a price, now, for this here little weskit

oh you know best, sir, i returned modestly.

i cant be buyer and seller too, said mr. dolloby. put a price on this here little weskit.

would eighteenpence be i hinted, after some hesitation.

mr. dolloby rolled it up again, and gave it me back. i should rob my family, he said, if i was to offer ninepence for it.

this was a disagreeable way of putting the business because it imposed upon me, a perfect stranger, the unpleasantness of asking mr. dolloby to rob his family on my account. my circumstances being so very pressing, however, i said i would take ninepence for it, if he pleased. mr. dolloby, not without some grumbling, gave ninepence. i wished him good night, and walked out of the shop the richer by that sum, and the poorer by a waistcoat. but when i buttoned my jacket, that was not much.

indeed, i foresaw pretty clearly that my jacket would go next, and that i should have to make the best of my way to dover in a shirt and a pair of trousers, and might deem myself lucky if i got there even in that trim. but my mind did not run so much on this as might be supposed. beyond a general impression of the distance before me, and of the young man with the donkeycart having used me cruelly, i think i had no very urgent sense of my difficulties when i once again set off with my ninepence in my pocket.

a plan had occurred to me for passing the night, which i was going to carry into execution. this was, to lie behind the wall at the back of my old school, in a corner where there used to be a haystack. i imagined it would be a kind of company to have the boys, and the bedroom where i used to tell the stories, so near me although the boys would know nothing of my being there, and the bedroom would yield me no shelter.

i had had a hard days work, and was pretty well jaded when i came climbing out, at last, upon the level of blackheath. it cost me some trouble to find out salem house but i found it, and i found a haystack in the corner, and i lay down by it having first walked round the wall, and looked up at the windows, and seen that all was dark and silent within. never shall i forget the lonely sensation of first lying down, without a roof above my head

sleep came upon me as it came on many other outcasts, against whom housedoors were locked, and housedogs barked, that night  and i dreamed of lying on my old schoolbed, talking to the boys in my room and found myself sitting upright, with steerforths name upon my lips, looking wildly at the stars that were glistening and glimmering above me. when i remembered where i was at that untimely hour, a feeling stole upon me that made me get up, afraid of i dont know what, and walk about. but the fainter glimmering of the stars, and the pale light in the sky where the day was coming, reassured me and my eyes being very heavy, i lay down again and slept  though with a knowledge in my sleep that it was cold  until the warm beams of the sun, and the ringing of the gettingup bell at salem house, awoke me. if i could have hoped that steerforth was there, i would have lurked about until he came out alone but i knew he must have left long since. traddles still remained, perhaps, but it was very doubtful and i had not sufficient confidence in his discretion or good luck, however strong my reliance was on his good nature, to wish to trust him with my situation. so i crept away from the wall as mr. creakles boys were getting up, and struck into the long dusty track which i had first known to be the dover road when i was one of them, and when i little expected that any eyes would ever see me the wayfarer i was now, upon it.

what a different sunday morning from the old sunday morning at yarmouth in due time i heard the churchbells ringing, as i plodded on and i met people who were going to church and i passed a church or two where the congregation were inside, and the sound of singing came out into the sunshine, while the beadle sat and cooled himself in the shade of the porch, or stood beneath the yewtree, with his hand to his forehead, glowering at me going by.

but the peace and rest of the old sunday morning were on everything, except me. that was the difference. i felt quite wicked in my dirt and dust, with my tangled hair. but for the quiet picture i had conjured up, of my mother in her youth and beauty, weeping by the fire, and my aunt relenting to her, i hardly think i should have had the courage to go on until next day. but it always went before me, and i followed.

i got, that sunday, through threeandtwenty miles on the straight road, though not very easily, for i was new to that kind of toil.

i see myself, as evening closes in, coming over the bridge at rochester, footsore and tired, and eating bread that i had bought for supper. one or two little houses, with the notice, lodgings for travellers, hanging out, had tempted me but i was afraid of spending the few pence i had, and was even more afraid of the vicious looks of the trampers i had met or overtaken. i sought no shelter, therefore, but the sky and toiling into chatham,  which, in that nights aspect, is a mere dream of chalk, and drawbridges, and mastless ships in a muddy river, roofed like noahs arks,  crept, at last, upon a sort of grassgrown battery overhanging a lane, where a sentry was walking to and fro. here i lay down, near a cannon and, happy in the society of the sentrys footsteps, though he knew no more of my being above him than the boys at salem house had known of my lying by the wall, slept soundly until morning.

very stiff and sore of foot i was in the morning, and quite dazed by the beating of drums and marching of troops, which seemed to hem me in on every side when i went down towards the long narrow street. feeling that i could go but a very little way that day, if i were to reserve any strength for getting to my journeys end, i resolved to make the sale of my jacket its principal business.

accordingly, i took the jacket off, that i might learn to do without it and carrying it under my arm, began a tour of inspection of the various slopshops.

it was a likely place to sell a jacket in for the dealers in secondhand clothes were numerous, and were, generally speaking, on the lookout for customers at their shop doors. but as most of them had, hanging up among their stock, an officers coat or two, epaulettes and all, i was rendered timid by the costly nature of their dealings, and walked about for a long time without offering my merchandise to anyone.

this modesty of mine directed my attention to the marinestore shops, and such shops as mr. dollobys, in preference to the regular dealers. at last i found one that i thought looked promising, at the corner of a dirty lane, ending in an enclosure full of stingingnettles, against the palings of which some secondhand sailors clothes, that seemed to have overflowed the shop, were fluttering among some cots, and rusty guns, and oilskin hats, and certain trays full of so many old rusty keys of so many sizes that they seemed various enough to open all the doors in the world.

into this shop, which was low and small, and which was darkened rather than lighted by a little window, overhung with clothes, and was descended into by some steps, i went with a palpitating heart which was not relieved when an ugly old man, with the lower part of his face all covered with a stubbly grey beard, rushed out of a dirty den behind it, and seized me by the hair of my head. he was a dreadful old man to look at, in a filthy flannel waistcoat, and smelling terribly of rum. his bedstead, covered with a tumbled and ragged piece of patchwork, was in the den he had come from, where another little window showed a prospect of more stingingnettles, and a lame donkey.

oh, what do you want grinned this old man, in a fierce, monotonous whine. oh, my eyes and limbs, what do you want oh, my lungs and liver, what do you want oh, goroo, goroo

i was so much dismayed by these words, and particularly by the repetition of the last unknown one, which was a kind of rattle in his throat, that i could make no answer hereupon the old man, still holding me by the hair, repeated oh, what do you want oh, my eyes and limbs, what do you want

oh, my lungs and liver, what do you want oh, goroo  which he screwed out of himself, with an energy that made his eyes start in his head.

i wanted to know, i said, trembling, if you would buy a jacket.

oh, lets see the jacket cried the old man. oh, my heart on fire, show the jacket to us oh, my eyes and limbs, bring the jacket out

with that he took his trembling hands, which were like the claws of a great bird, out of my hair and put on a pair of spectacles, not at all ornamental to his inflamed eyes.

oh, how much for the jacket cried the old man, after examining it. oh  goroo  how much for the jacket

halfacrown, i answered, recovering myself.

oh, my lungs and liver, cried the old man, no oh, my eyes, no

oh, my limbs, no eighteenpence. goroo

every time he uttered this ejaculation, his eyes seemed to be in danger of starting out and every sentence he spoke, he delivered in a sort of tune, always exactly the same, and more like a gust of wind, which begins low, mounts up high, and falls again, than any other comparison i can find for it.

well, said i, glad to have closed the bargain, ill take eighteenpence.

oh, my liver cried the old man, throwing the jacket on a shelf.

get out of the shop oh, my lungs, get out of the shop oh, my eyes and limbs  goroo  dont ask for money make it an exchange. i never was so frightened in my life, before or since but i told him humbly that i wanted money, and that nothing else was of any use to me, but that i would wait for it, as he desired, outside, and had no wish to hurry him. so i went outside, and sat down in the shade in a corner. and i sat there so many hours, that the shade became sunlight, and the sunlight became shade again, and still i sat there waiting for the money.

there never was such another drunken madman in that line of business, i hope. that he was well known in the neighbourhood, and enjoyed the reputation of having sold himself to the devil, i soon understood from the visits he received from the boys, who continually came skirmishing about the shop, shouting that legend, and calling to him to bring out his gold. you aint poor, you know, charley, as you pretend. bring out your gold. bring out some of the gold you sold yourself to the devil for. come its in the lining of the mattress, charley. rip it open and lets have some this, and many offers to lend him a knife for the purpose, exasperated him to such a degree, that the whole day was a succession of rushes on his part, and flights on the part of the boys. sometimes in his rage he would take me for one of them, and come at me, mouthing as if he were going to tear me in pieces then, remembering me, just in time, would dive into the shop, and lie upon his bed, as i thought from the sound of his voice, yelling in a frantic way, to his own windy tune, the death of nelson with an oh before every line, and innumerable goroos interspersed.

as if this were not bad enough for me, the boys, connecting me with the establishment, on account of the patience and perseverance with which i sat outside, halfdressed, pelted me, and used me very ill all day.

he made many attempts to induce me to consent to an exchange at one time coming out with a fishingrod, at another with a fiddle, at another with a cocked hat, at another with a flute. but i resisted all these overtures, and sat there in desperation each time asking him, with tears in my eyes, for my money or my jacket.

at last he began to pay me in halfpence at a time and was full two hours getting by easy stages to a shilling.

oh, my eyes and limbs he then cried, peeping hideously out of the shop, after a long pause, will you go for twopence more

i cant, i said i shall be starved.

oh, my lungs and liver, will you go for threepence

i would go for nothing, if i could, i said, but i want the money badly.

oh, goroo it is really impossible to express how he twisted this ejaculation out of himself, as he peeped round the doorpost at me, showing nothing but his crafty old head will you go for fourpence

i was so faint and weary that i closed with this offer and taking the money out of his claw, not without trembling, went away more hungry and thirsty than i had ever been, a little before sunset.

but at an expense of threepence i soon refreshed myself completely and, being in better spirits then, limped seven miles upon my road.

my bed at night was under another haystack, where i rested comfortably, after having washed my blistered feet in a stream, and dressed them as well as i was able, with some cool leaves. when i took the road again next morning, i found that it lay through a succession of hopgrounds and orchards. it was sufficiently late in the year for the orchards to be ruddy with ripe apples and in a few places the hoppickers were already at work. i thought it all extremely beautiful, and made up my mind to sleep among the hops that night imagining some cheerful companionship in the long perspectives of poles, with the graceful leaves twining round them.

the trampers were worse than ever that day, and inspired me with a dread that is yet quite fresh in my mind. some of them were most ferociouslooking ruffians, who stared at me as i went by and stopped, perhaps, and called after me to come back and speak to them, and when i took to my heels, stoned me. i recollect one young fellow  a tinker, i suppose, from his wallet and brazier  who had a woman with him, and who faced about and stared at me thus and then roared to me in such a tremendous voice to come back, that i halted and looked round.

come here, when youre called, said the tinker, or ill rip your young body open.

i thought it best to go back. as i drew nearer to them, trying to propitiate the tinker by my looks, i observed that the woman had a black eye.

where are you going said the tinker, gripping the bosom of my shirt with his blackened hand.

i am going to dover, i said.

where do you come from asked the tinker, giving his hand another turn in my shirt, to hold me more securely.

i come from london, i said.

what lay are you upon asked the tinker. are you a prig

nno, i said.

aint you, by g if you make a brag of your honesty to me, said the tinker, ill knock your brains out.

with his disengaged hand he made a menace of striking me, and then looked at me from head to foot.

have you got the price of a pint of beer about you said the tinker. if you have, out with it, afore i take it away

i should certainly have produced it, but that i met the womans look, and saw her very slightly shake her head, and form no with her lips.

i am very poor, i said, attempting to smile, and have got no money.

why, what do you mean said the tinker, looking so sternly at me, that i almost feared he saw the money in my pocket.

sir i stammered.

what do you mean, said the tinker, by wearing my brothers silk handkerchief give it over here and he had mine off my neck in a moment, and tossed it to the woman.

the woman burst into a fit of laughter, as if she thought this a joke, and tossed it back to me, nodded once, as slightly as before, and made the word go with her lips. before i could obey, however, the tinker seized the handkerchief out of my hand with a roughness that threw me away like a feather, and putting it loosely round his own neck, turned upon the woman with an oath, and knocked her down. i never shall forget seeing her fall backward on the hard road, and lie there with her bonnet tumbled off, and her hair all whitened in the dust nor, when i looked back from a distance, seeing her sitting on the pathway, which was a bank by the roadside, wiping the blood from her face with a corner of her shawl, while he went on ahead.

this adventure frightened me so, that, afterwards, when i saw any of these people coming, i turned back until i could find a hidingplace, where i remained until they had gone out of sight which happened so often, that i was very seriously delayed. but under this difficulty, as under all the other difficulties of my journey, i seemed to be sustained and led on by my fanciful picture of my mother in her youth, before i came into the world. it always kept me company. it was there, among the hops, when i lay down to sleep it was with me on my waking in the morning it went before me all day. i have associated it, ever since, with the sunny street of canterbury, dozing as it were in the hot light and with the sight of its old houses and gateways, and the stately, grey cathedral, with the rooks sailing round the towers. when i came, at last, upon the bare, wide downs near dover, it relieved the solitary aspect of the scene with hope and not until i reached that first great aim of my journey, and actually set foot in the town itself, on the sixth day of my flight, did it desert me. but then, strange to say, when i stood with my ragged shoes, and my dusty, sunburnt, halfclothed figure, in the place so long desired, it seemed to vanish like a dream, and to leave me helpless and dispirited.

i inquired about my aunt among the boatmen first, and received various answers. one said she lived in the south foreland light, and had singed her whiskers by doing so another, that she was made fast to the great buoy outside the harbour, and could only be visited at halftide a third, that she was locked up in maidstone jail for childstealing a fourth, that she was seen to mount a broom in the last high wind, and make direct for calais. the flydrivers, among whom i inquired next, were equally jocose and equally disrespectful and the shopkeepers, not liking my appearance, generally replied, without hearing what i had to say, that they had got nothing for me. i felt more miserable and destitute than i had done at any period of my running away. my money was all gone, i had nothing left to dispose of i was hungry, thirsty, and worn out and seemed as distant from my end as if i had remained in london.

the morning had worn away in these inquiries, and i was sitting on the step of an empty shop at a street corner, near the marketplace, deliberating upon wandering towards those other places which had been mentioned, when a flydriver, coming by with his carriage, dropped a horsecloth. something goodnatured in the mans face, as i handed it up, encouraged me to ask him if he could tell me where miss trotwood lived though i had asked the question so often, that it almost died upon my lips.

trotwood, said he. let me see. i know the name, too. old lady

yes, i said, rather.

pretty stiff in the back said he, making himself upright.

yes, i said. i should think it very likely.

carries a bag said he  bag with a good deal of room in it  is gruffish, and comes down upon you, sharp

my heart sank within me as i acknowledged the undoubted accuracy of this description.

why then, i tell you what, said he. if you go up there, pointing with his whip towards the heights, and keep right on till you come to some houses facing the sea, i think youll hear of her.

my opinion is she wont stand anything, so heres a penny for you.

i accepted the gift thankfully, and bought a loaf with it.

dispatching this refreshment by the way, i went in the direction my friend had indicated, and walked on a good distance without coming to the houses he had mentioned. at length i saw some before me and approaching them, went into a little shop it was what we used to call a general shop, at home, and inquired if they could have the goodness to tell me where miss trotwood lived. i addressed myself to a man behind the counter, who was weighing some rice for a young woman but the latter, taking the inquiry to herself, turned round quickly.

my mistress she said. what do you want with her, boy

i want, i replied, to speak to her, if you please.

to beg of her, you mean, retorted the damsel.

no, i said, indeed. but suddenly remembering that in truth i came for no other purpose, i held my peace in confusion, and felt my face burn.

my aunts handmaid, as i supposed she was from what she had said, put her rice in a little basket and walked out of the shop telling me that i could follow her, if i wanted to know where miss trotwood lived. i needed no second permission though i was by this time in such a state of consternation and agitation, that my legs shook under me. i followed the young woman, and we soon came to a very neat little cottage with cheerful bowwindows in front of it, a small square gravelled court or garden full of flowers, carefully tended, and smelling deliciously.

this is miss trotwoods, said the young woman. now you know and thats all i have got to say. with which words she hurried into the house, as if to shake off the responsibility of my appearance and left me standing at the gardengate, looking disconsolately over the top of it towards the parlour window, where a muslin curtain partly undrawn in the middle, a large round green screen or fan fastened on to the windowsill, a small table, and a great chair, suggested to me that my aunt might be at that moment seated in awful state.

my shoes were by this time in a woeful condition. the soles had shed themselves bit by bit, and the upper leathers had broken and burst until the very shape and form of shoes had departed from them. my hat which had served me for a nightcap, too was so crushed and bent, that no old battered handleless saucepan on a dunghill need have been ashamed to vie with it. my shirt and trousers, stained with heat, dew, grass, and the kentish soil on which i had slept  and torn besides  might have frightened the birds from my aunts garden, as i stood at the gate. my hair had known no comb or brush since i left london. my face, neck, and hands, from unaccustomed exposure to the air and sun, were burnt to a berrybrown. from head to foot i was powdered almost as white with chalk and dust, as if i had come out of a limekiln. in this plight, and with a strong consciousness of it, i waited to introduce myself to, and make my first impression on, my formidable aunt.

the unbroken stillness of the parlour window leading me to infer, after a while, that she was not there, i lifted up my eyes to the window above it, where i saw a florid, pleasantlooking gentleman, with a grey head, who shut up one eye in a grotesque manner, nodded his head at me several times, shook it at me as often, laughed, and went away.

i had been discomposed enough before but i was so much the more discomposed by this unexpected behaviour, that i was on the point of slinking off, to think how i had best proceed, when there came out of the house a lady with her handkerchief tied over her cap, and a pair of gardening gloves on her hands, wearing a gardening pocket like a tollmans apron, and carrying a great knife. i knew her immediately to be miss betsey, for she came stalking out of the house exactly as my poor mother had so often described her stalking up our garden at blunderstone rookery.

go away said miss betsey, shaking her head, and making a distant chop in the air with her knife. go along no boys here

i watched her, with my heart at my lips, as she marched to a corner of her garden, and stooped to dig up some little root there. then, without a scrap of courage, but with a great deal of desperation, i went softly in and stood beside her, touching her with my finger.

if you please, maam, i began.

she started and looked up.

if you please, aunt.

eh exclaimed miss betsey, in a tone of amazement i have never heard approached.

if you please, aunt, i am your nephew.

oh, lord said my aunt. and sat flat down in the gardenpath.

i am david copperfield, of blunderstone, in suffolk  where you came, on the night when i was born, and saw my dear mama. i have been very unhappy since she died. i have been slighted, and taught nothing, and thrown upon myself, and put to work not fit for me.

it made me run away to you. i was robbed at first setting out, and have walked all the way, and have never slept in a bed since i began the journey. here my selfsupport gave way all at once and with a movement of my hands, intended to show her my ragged state, and call it to witness that i had suffered something, i broke into a passion of crying, which i suppose had been pent up within me all the week.

my aunt, with every sort of expression but wonder discharged from her countenance, sat on the gravel, staring at me, until i began to cry when she got up in a great hurry, collared me, and took me into the parlour. her first proceeding there was to unlock a tall press, bring out several bottles, and pour some of the contents of each into my mouth. i think they must have been taken out at random, for i am sure i tasted aniseed water, anchovy sauce, and salad dressing. when she had administered these restoratives, as i was still quite hysterical, and unable to control my sobs, she put me on the sofa, with a shawl under my head, and the handkerchief from her own head under my feet, lest i should sully the cover and then, sitting herself down behind the green fan or screen i have already mentioned, so that i could not see her face, ejaculated at intervals, mercy on us letting those exclamations off like minute guns.

after a time she rang the bell. janet, said my aunt, when her servant came in. go upstairs, give my compliments to mr. dick, and say i wish to speak to him.

janet looked a little surprised to see me lying stiffly on the sofa i was afraid to move lest it should be displeasing to my aunt, but went on her errand. my aunt, with her hands behind her, walked up and down the room, until the gentleman who had squinted at me from the upper window came in laughing.

mr. dick, said my aunt, dont be a fool, because nobody can be more discreet than you can, when you choose. we all know that. so dont be a fool, whatever you are.

the gentleman was serious immediately, and looked at me, i thought, as if he would entreat me to say nothing about the window.

mr. dick, said my aunt, you have heard me mention david copperfield now dont pretend not to have a memory, because you and i know better.

david copperfield said mr. dick, who did not appear to me to remember much about it. david copperfield oh yes, to be sure.

david, certainly.

well, said my aunt, this is his boy  his son. he would be as like his father as its possible to be, if he was not so like his mother, too.

his son said mr. dick. davids son indeed

yes, pursued my aunt, and he has done a pretty piece of business. he has run away. ah his sister, betsey trotwood, never would have run away. my aunt shook her head firmly, confident in the character and behaviour of the girl who never was born.

oh you think she wouldnt have run away said mr. dick.

bless and save the man, exclaimed my aunt, sharply, how he talks dont i know she wouldnt she would have lived with her godmother, and we should have been devoted to one another. where, in the name of wonder, should his sister, betsey trotwood, have run from, or to

nowhere, said mr. dick.

well then, returned my aunt, softened by the reply, how can you pretend to be woolgathering, dick, when you are as sharp as a surgeons lancet now, here you see young david copperfield, and the question i put to you is, what shall i do with him

what shall you do with him said mr. dick, feebly, scratching his head. oh do with him

yes, said my aunt, with a grave look, and her forefinger held up.

come i want some very sound advice.

why, if i was you, said mr. dick, considering, and looking vacantly at me, i should  the contemplation of me seemed to inspire him with a sudden idea, and he added, briskly, i should wash him

janet, said my aunt, turning round with a quiet triumph, which i did not then understand, mr. dick sets us all right. heat the bath

although i was deeply interested in this dialogue, i could not help observing my aunt, mr. dick, and janet, while it was in progress, and completing a survey i had already been engaged in making of the room.

my aunt was a tall, hardfeatured lady, but by no means illlooking. there was an inflexibility in her face, in her voice, in her gait and carriage, amply sufficient to account for the effect she had made upon a gentle creature like my mother but her features were rather handsome than otherwise, though unbending and austere. i particularly noticed that she had a very quick, bright eye. her hair, which was grey, was arranged in two plain divisions, under what i believe would be called a mobcap i mean a cap, much more common then than now, with sidepieces fastening under the chin. her dress was of a lavender colour, and perfectly neat but scantily made, as if she desired to be as little encumbered as possible. i remember that i thought it, in form, more like a ridinghabit with the superfluous skirt cut off, than anything else. she wore at her side a gentlemans gold watch, if i might judge from its size and make, with an appropriate chain and seals she had some linen at her throat not unlike a shirtcollar, and things at her wrists like little shirtwristbands.

mr. dick, as i have already said, was greyheaded, and florid i should have said all about him, in saying so, had not his head been curiously bowed  not by age it reminded me of one of mr.

creakles boys heads after a beating  and his grey eyes prominent and large, with a strange kind of watery brightness in them that made me, in combination with his vacant manner, his submission to my aunt, and his childish delight when she praised him, suspect him of being a little mad though, if he were mad, how he came to be there puzzled me extremely. he was dressed like any other ordinary gentleman, in a loose grey morning coat and waistcoat, and white trousers and had his watch in his fob, and his money in his pockets which he rattled as if he were very proud of it.

janet was a pretty blooming girl, of about nineteen or twenty, and a perfect picture of neatness. though i made no further observation of her at the moment, i may mention here what i did not discover until afterwards, namely, that she was one of a series of protegees whom my aunt had taken into her service expressly to educate in a renouncement of mankind, and who had generally completed their abjuration by marrying the baker.

the room was as neat as janet or my aunt. as i laid down my pen, a moment since, to think of it, the air from the sea came blowing in again, mixed with the perfume of the flowers and i saw the oldfashioned furniture brightly rubbed and polished, my aunts inviolable chair and table by the round green fan in the bowwindow, the druggetcovered carpet, the cat, the kettleholder, the two canaries, the old china, the punchbowl full of dried roseleaves, the tall press guarding all sorts of bottles and pots, and, wonderfully out of keeping with the rest, my dusty self upon the sofa, taking note of everything.

janet had gone away to get the bath ready, when my aunt, to my great alarm, became in one moment rigid with indignation, and had hardly voice to cry out, janet donkeys

upon which, janet came running up the stairs as if the house were in flames, darted out on a little piece of green in front, and warned off two saddledonkeys, ladyridden, that had presumed to set hoof upon it while my aunt, rushing out of the house, seized the bridle of a third animal laden with a bestriding child, turned him, led him forth from those sacred precincts, and boxed the ears of the unlucky urchin in attendance who had dared to profane that hallowed ground.

to this hour i dont know whether my aunt had any lawful right of way over that patch of green but she had settled it in her own mind that she had, and it was all the same to her. the one great outrage of her life, demanding to be constantly avenged, was the passage of a donkey over that immaculate spot. in whatever occupation she was engaged, however interesting to her the conversation in which she was taking part, a donkey turned the current of her ideas in a moment, and she was upon him straight.

jugs of water, and wateringpots, were kept in secret places ready to be discharged on the offending boys sticks were laid in ambush behind the door sallies were made at all hours and incessant war prevailed. perhaps this was an agreeable excitement to the donkeyboys or perhaps the more sagacious of the donkeys, understanding how the case stood, delighted with constitutional obstinacy in coming that way. i only know that there were three alarms before the bath was ready and that on the occasion of the last and most desperate of all, i saw my aunt engage, singlehanded, with a sandyheaded lad of fifteen, and bump his sandy head against her own gate, before he seemed to comprehend what was the matter. these interruptions were of the more ridiculous to me, because she was giving me broth out of a tablespoon at the time having firmly persuaded herself that i was actually starving, and must receive nourishment at first in very small quantities, and, while my mouth was yet open to receive the spoon, she would put it back into the basin, cry janet donkeys and go out to the assault.

the bath was a great comfort. for i began to be sensible of acute pains in my limbs from lying out in the fields, and was now so tired and low that i could hardly keep myself awake for five minutes together. when i had bathed, they i mean my aunt and janet enrobed me in a shirt and a pair of trousers belonging to mr. dick, and tied me up in two or three great shawls. what sort of bundle i looked like, i dont know, but i felt a very hot one.

feeling also very faint and drowsy, i soon lay down on the sofa again and fell asleep.

it might have been a dream, originating in the fancy which had occupied my mind so long, but i awoke with the impression that my aunt had come and bent over me, and had put my hair away from my face, and laid my head more comfortably, and had then stood looking at me. the words, pretty fellow, or poor fellow, seemed to be in my ears, too but certainly there was nothing else, when i awoke, to lead me to believe that they had been uttered by my aunt, who sat in the bowwindow gazing at the sea from behind the green fan, which was mounted on a kind of swivel, and turned any way.

we dined soon after i awoke, off a roast fowl and a pudding i sitting at table, not unlike a trussed bird myself, and moving my arms with considerable difficulty. but as my aunt had swathed me up, i made no complaint of being inconvenienced. all this time i was deeply anxious to know what she was going to do with me but she took her dinner in profound silence, except when she occasionally fixed her eyes on me sitting opposite, and said, mercy upon us which did not by any means relieve my anxiety.

the cloth being drawn, and some sherry put upon the table of which i had a glass, my aunt sent up for mr. dick again, who joined us, and looked as wise as he could when she requested him to attend to my story, which she elicited from me, gradually, by a course of questions. during my recital, she kept her eyes on mr. dick, who i thought would have gone to sleep but for that, and who, whensoever he lapsed into a smile, was checked by a frown from my aunt.

whatever possessed that poor unfortunate baby, that she must go and be married again, said my aunt, when i had finished, i cant conceive.

perhaps she fell in love with her second husband, mr. dick suggested.

fell in love repeated my aunt. what do you mean what business had she to do it

perhaps, mr. dick simpered, after thinking a little, she did it for pleasure.

pleasure, indeed replied my aunt. a mighty pleasure for the poor baby to fix her simple faith upon any dog of a fellow, certain to illuse her in some way or other. what did she propose to herself, i should like to know she had had one husband. she had seen david copperfield out of the world, who was always running after wax dolls from his cradle. she had got a baby  oh, there were a pair of babies when she gave birth to this child sitting here, that friday night  and what more did she want

mr. dick secretly shook his head at me, as if he thought there was no getting over this.

she couldnt even have a baby like anybody else, said my aunt.

where was this childs sister, betsey trotwood not forthcoming.

dont tell me

mr. dick seemed quite frightened.

that little man of a doctor, with his head on one side, said my aunt, jellips, or whatever his name was, what was he about all he could do, was to say to me, like a robin redbreast  as he is  its a boy. a boy yah, the imbecility of the whole set of em

the heartiness of the ejaculation startled mr. dick exceedingly and me, too, if i am to tell the truth.

and then, as if this was not enough, and she had not stood sufficiently in the light of this childs sister, betsey trotwood, said my aunt, she marries a second time  goes and marries a murderer  or a man with a name like it  and stands in this childs light and the natural consequence is, as anybody but a baby might have foreseen, that he prowls and wanders. hes as like cain before he was grown up, as he can be.

mr. dick looked hard at me, as if to identify me in this character.

and then theres that woman with the pagan name, said my aunt, that peggotty, she goes and gets married next. because she has not seen enough of the evil attending such things, she goes and gets married next, as the child relates. i only hope, said my aunt, shaking her head, that her husband is one of those poker husbands who abound in the newspapers, and will beat her well with one.

i could not bear to hear my old nurse so decried, and made the subject of such a wish. i told my aunt that indeed she was mistaken. that peggotty was the best, the truest, the most faithful, most devoted, and most selfdenying friend and servant in the world who had ever loved me dearly, who had ever loved my mother dearly who had held my mothers dying head upon her arm, on whose face my mother had imprinted her last grateful kiss. and my remembrance of them both, choking me, i broke down as i was trying to say that her home was my home, and that all she had was mine, and that i would have gone to her for shelter, but for her humble station, which made me fear that i might bring some trouble on her  i broke down, i say, as i was trying to say so, and laid my face in my hands upon the table.

well, well said my aunt, the child is right to stand by those who have stood by him  janet donkeys

i thoroughly believe that but for those unfortunate donkeys, we should have come to a good understanding for my aunt had laid her hand on my shoulder, and the impulse was upon me, thus emboldened, to embrace her and beseech her protection. but the interruption, and the disorder she was thrown into by the struggle outside, put an end to all softer ideas for the present, and kept my aunt indignantly declaiming to mr. dick about her determination to appeal for redress to the laws of her country, and to bring actions for trespass against the whole donkey proprietorship of dover, until teatime.

after tea, we sat at the window  on the lookout, as i imagined, from my aunts sharp expression of face, for more invaders  until dusk, when janet set candles, and a backgammonboard, on the table, and pulled down the blinds.

now, mr. dick, said my aunt, with her grave look, and her forefinger up as before, i am going to ask you another question.

look at this child.

davids son said mr. dick, with an attentive, puzzled face.

exactly so, returned my aunt. what would you do with him, now

do with davids son said mr. dick.

ay, replied my aunt, with davids son.

oh said mr. dick. yes. do with  i should put him to bed.

janet cried my aunt, with the same complacent triumph that i had remarked before. mr. dick sets us all right. if the bed is ready, well take him up to it.

janet reporting it to be quite ready, i was taken up to it kindly, but in some sort like a prisoner my aunt going in front and janet bringing up the rear. the only circumstance which gave me any new hope, was my aunts stopping on the stairs to inquire about a smell of fire that was prevalent there and janets replying that she had been making tinder down in the kitchen, of my old shirt. but there were no other clothes in my room than the odd heap of things i wore and when i was left there, with a little taper which my aunt forewarned me would burn exactly five minutes, i heard them lock my door on the outside. turning these things over in my mind i deemed it possible that my aunt, who could know nothing of me, might suspect i had a habit of running away, and took precautions, on that account, to have me in safe keeping.

the room was a pleasant one, at the top of the house, overlooking the sea, on which the moon was shining brilliantly. after i had said my prayers, and the candle had burnt out, i remember how i still sat looking at the moonlight on the water, as if i could hope to read my fortune in it, as in a bright book or to see my mother with her child, coming from heaven, along that shining path, to look upon me as she had looked when i last saw her sweet face. i remember how the solemn feeling with which at length i turned my eyes away, yielded to the sensation of gratitude and rest which the sight of the whitecurtained bed  and how much more the lying softly down upon it, nestling in the snowwhite sheets  inspired.

i remember how i thought of all the solitary places under the night sky where i had slept, and how i prayed that i never might be houseless any more, and never might forget the houseless. i remember how i seemed to float, then, down the melancholy glory of that track upon the sea, away into the world of dreams.



chapter 

my aunt makes up her mind about me

on going down in the morning, i found my aunt musing so profoundly over the breakfast table, with her elbow on the tray, that the contents of the urn had overflowed the teapot and were laying the whole tablecloth under water, when my entrance put her meditations to flight. i felt sure that i had been the subject of her reflections, and was more than ever anxious to know her intentions towards me. yet i dared not express my anxiety, lest it should give her offence.

my eyes, however, not being so much under control as my tongue, were attracted towards my aunt very often during breakfast. i never could look at her for a few moments together but i found her looking at me  in an odd thoughtful manner, as if i were an immense way off, instead of being on the other side of the small round table. when she had finished her breakfast, my aunt very deliberately leaned back in her chair, knitted her brows, folded her arms, and contemplated me at her leisure, with such a fixedness of attention that i was quite overpowered by embarrassment. not having as yet finished my own breakfast, i attempted to hide my confusion by proceeding with it but my knife tumbled over my fork, my fork tripped up my knife, i chipped bits of bacon a surprising height into the air instead of cutting them for my own eating, and choked myself with my tea, which persisted in going the wrong way instead of the right one, until i gave in altogether, and sat blushing under my aunts close scrutiny.

hallo said my aunt, after a long time.

i looked up, and met her sharp bright glance respectfully.

i have written to him, said my aunt.

to 

to your fatherinlaw, said my aunt. i have sent him a letter that ill trouble him to attend to, or he and i will fall out, i can tell him

does he know where i am, aunt i inquired, alarmed.

i have told him, said my aunt, with a nod.

shall i  be  given up to him i faltered.

i dont know, said my aunt. we shall see.

oh i cant think what i shall do, i exclaimed, if i have to go back to mr. murdstone

i dont know anything about it, said my aunt, shaking her head.

i cant say, i am sure. we shall see.

my spirits sank under these words, and i became very downcast and heavy of heart. my aunt, without appearing to take much heed of me, put on a coarse apron with a bib, which she took out of the press washed up the teacups with her own hands and, when everything was washed and set in the tray again, and the cloth folded and put on the top of the whole, rang for janet to remove it. she next swept up the crumbs with a little broom putting on a pair of gloves first, until there did not appear to be one microscopic speck left on the carpet next dusted and arranged the room, which was dusted and arranged to a hairs breadth already.

when all these tasks were performed to her satisfaction, she took off the gloves and apron, folded them up, put them in the particular corner of the press from which they had been taken, brought out her workbox to her own table in the open window, and sat down, with the green fan between her and the light, to work.

i wish youd go upstairs, said my aunt, as she threaded her needle, and give my compliments to mr. dick, and ill be glad to know how he gets on with his memorial.

i rose with all alacrity, to acquit myself of this commission.

i suppose, said my aunt, eyeing me as narrowly as she had eyed the needle in threading it, you think mr. dick a short name, eh

i thought it was rather a short name, yesterday, i confessed.

you are not to suppose that he hasnt got a longer name, if he chose to use it, said my aunt, with a loftier air. babley  mr.

richard babley  thats the gentlemans true name.

i was going to suggest, with a modest sense of my youth and the familiarity i had been already guilty of, that i had better give him the full benefit of that name, when my aunt went on to say but dont you call him by it, whatever you do. he cant bear his name. thats a peculiarity of his. though i dont know that its much of a peculiarity, either for he has been illused enough, by some that bear it, to have a mortal antipathy for it, heaven knows.

mr. dick is his name here, and everywhere else, now  if he ever went anywhere else, which he dont. so take care, child, you dont call him anything but mr. dick.

i promised to obey, and went upstairs with my message thinking, as i went, that if mr. dick had been working at his memorial long, at the same rate as i had seen him working at it, through the open door, when i came down, he was probably getting on very well indeed. i found him still driving at it with a long pen, and his head almost laid upon the paper. he was so intent upon it, that i had ample leisure to observe the large paper kite in a corner, the confusion of bundles of manuscript, the number of pens, and, above all, the quantity of ink which he seemed to have in, in halfgallon jars by the dozen, before he observed my being present.

ha phoebus said mr. dick, laying down his pen. how does the world go ill tell you what, he added, in a lower tone, i shouldnt wish it to be mentioned, but its a  here he beckoned to me, and put his lips close to my ear  its a mad world. mad as bedlam, boy said mr. dick, taking snuff from a round box on the table, and laughing heartily.

without presuming to give my opinion on this question, i delivered my message.

well, said mr. dick, in answer, my compliments to her, and i  i believe i have made a start. i think i have made a start, said mr. dick, passing his hand among his grey hair, and casting anything but a confident look at his manuscript. you have been to school

yes, sir, i answered for a short time.

do you recollect the date, said mr. dick, looking earnestly at me, and taking up his pen to note it down, when king charles the first had his head cut off

i said i believed it happened in the year sixteen hundred and fortynine.

well, returned mr. dick, scratching his ear with his pen, and looking dubiously at me. so the books say but i dont see how that can be. because, if it was so long ago, how could the people about him have made that mistake of putting some of the trouble out of his head, after it was taken off, into mine

i was very much surprised by the inquiry but could give no information on this point.

its very strange, said mr. dick, with a despondent look upon his papers, and with his hand among his hair again, that i never can get that quite right. i never can make that perfectly clear. but no matter, no matter he said cheerfully, and rousing himself, theres time enough my compliments to miss trotwood, i am getting on very well indeed.

i was going away, when he directed my attention to the kite.

what do you think of that for a kite he said.

i answered that it was a beautiful one. i should think it must have been as much as seven feet high.

i made it. well go and fly it, you and i, said mr. dick. do you see this

he showed me that it was covered with manuscript, very closely and laboriously written but so plainly, that as i looked along the lines, i thought i saw some allusion to king charles the firsts head again, in one or two places.

theres plenty of string, said mr. dick, and when it flies high, it takes the facts a long way. thats my manner of diffusing em.

i dont know where they may come down. its according to circumstances, and the wind, and so forth but i take my chance of that.

his face was so very mild and pleasant, and had something so reverend in it, though it was hale and hearty, that i was not sure but that he was having a goodhumoured jest with me. so i laughed, and he laughed, and we parted the best friends possible.

well, child, said my aunt, when i went downstairs. and what of mr. dick, this morning

i informed her that he sent his compliments, and was getting on very well indeed.

what do you think of him said my aunt.

i had some shadowy idea of endeavouring to evade the question, by replying that i thought him a very nice gentleman but my aunt was not to be so put off, for she laid her work down in her lap, and said, folding her hands upon it come your sister betsey trotwood would have told me what she thought of anyone, directly. be as like your sister as you can, and speak out

is he  is mr. dick  i ask because i dont know, aunt  is he at all out of his mind, then i stammered for i felt i was on dangerous ground.

not a morsel, said my aunt.

oh, indeed i observed faintly.

if there is anything in the world, said my aunt, with great decision and force of manner, that mr. dick is not, its that.

i had nothing better to offer, than another timid, oh, indeed

he has been called mad, said my aunt. i have a selfish pleasure in saying he has been called mad, or i should not have had the benefit of his society and advice for these last ten years and upwards  in fact, ever since your sister, betsey trotwood, disappointed me.

so long as that i said.

and nice people they were, who had the audacity to call him mad, pursued my aunt. mr. dick is a sort of distant connexion of mine  it doesnt matter how i neednt enter into that. if it hadnt been for me, his own brother would have shut him up for life.

thats all.

i am afraid it was hypocritical in me, but seeing that my aunt felt strongly on the subject, i tried to look as if i felt strongly too.

a proud fool said my aunt. because his brother was a little eccentric  though he is not half so eccentric as a good many people  he didnt like to have him visible about his house, and sent him away to some private asylumplace though he had been left to his particular care by their deceased father, who thought him almost a natural. and a wise man he must have been to think so

mad himself, no doubt.

again, as my aunt looked quite convinced, i endeavoured to look quite convinced also.

so i stepped in, said my aunt, and made him an offer. i said,

your brothers sane  a great deal more sane than you are, or ever will be, it is to be hoped. let him have his little income, and come and live with me. i am not afraid of him, i am not proud, i am ready to take care of him, and shall not illtreat him as some people besides the asylumfolks have done. after a good deal of squabbling, said my aunt, i got him and he has been here ever since. he is the most friendly and amenable creature in existence and as for advice  but nobody knows what that mans mind is, except myself.

my aunt smoothed her dress and shook her head, as if she smoothed defiance of the whole world out of the one, and shook it out of the other.

he had a favourite sister, said my aunt, a good creature, and very kind to him. but she did what they all do  took a husband.

and he did what they all do  made her wretched. it had such an effect upon the mind of mr. dick thats not madness, i hope that, combined with his fear of his brother, and his sense of his unkindness, it threw him into a fever. that was before he came to me, but the recollection of it is oppressive to him even now. did he say anything to you about king charles the first, child

yes, aunt.

ah said my aunt, rubbing her nose as if she were a little vexed.

thats his allegorical way of expressing it. he connects his illness with great disturbance and agitation, naturally, and thats the figure, or the simile, or whatever its called, which he chooses to use. and why shouldnt he, if he thinks proper

i said certainly, aunt.

its not a businesslike way of speaking, said my aunt, nor a worldly way. i am aware of that and thats the reason why i insist upon it, that there shant be a word about it in his memorial.

is it a memorial about his own history that he is writing, aunt

yes, child, said my aunt, rubbing her nose again. he is memorializing the lord chancellor, or the lord somebody or other  one of those people, at all events, who are paid to be memorialized  about his affairs. i suppose it will go in, one of these days.

he hasnt been able to draw it up yet, without introducing that mode of expressing himself but it dont signify it keeps him employed.

in fact, i found out afterwards that mr. dick had been for upwards of ten years endeavouring to keep king charles the first out of the memorial but he had been constantly getting into it, and was there now.

i say again, said my aunt, nobody knows what that mans mind is except myself and hes the most amenable and friendly creature in existence. if he likes to fly a kite sometimes, what of that

franklin used to fly a kite. he was a quaker, or something of that sort, if i am not mistaken. and a quaker flying a kite is a much more ridiculous object than anybody else.

if i could have supposed that my aunt had recounted these particulars for my especial behoof, and as a piece of confidence in me, i should have felt very much distinguished, and should have augured favourably from such a mark of her good opinion. but i could hardly help observing that she had launched into them, chiefly because the question was raised in her own mind, and with very little reference to me, though she had addressed herself to me in the absence of anybody else.

at the same time, i must say that the generosity of her championship of poor harmless mr. dick, not only inspired my young breast with some selfish hope for myself, but warmed it unselfishly towards her. i believe that i began to know that there was something about my aunt, notwithstanding her many eccentricities and odd humours, to be honoured and trusted in. though she was just as sharp that day as on the day before, and was in and out about the donkeys just as often, and was thrown into a tremendous state of indignation, when a young man, going by, ogled janet at a window which was one of the gravest misdemeanours that could be committed against my aunts dignity, she seemed to me to command more of my respect, if not less of my fear.

the anxiety i underwent, in the interval which necessarily elapsed before a reply could be received to her letter to mr. murdstone, was extreme but i made an endeavour to suppress it, and to be as agreeable as i could in a quiet way, both to my aunt and mr. dick.

the latter and i would have gone out to fly the great kite but that i had still no other clothes than the anything but ornamental garments with which i had been decorated on the first day, and which confined me to the house, except for an hour after dark, when my aunt, for my healths sake, paraded me up and down on the cliff outside, before going to bed. at length the reply from mr.

murdstone came, and my aunt informed me, to my infinite terror, that he was coming to speak to her herself on the next day. on the next day, still bundled up in my curious habiliments, i sat counting the time, flushed and heated by the conflict of sinking hopes and rising fears within me and waiting to be startled by the sight of the gloomy face, whose nonarrival startled me every minute.

my aunt was a little more imperious and stern than usual, but i observed no other token of her preparing herself to receive the visitor so much dreaded by me. she sat at work in the window, and i sat by, with my thoughts running astray on all possible and impossible results of mr. murdstones visit, until pretty late in the afternoon. our dinner had been indefinitely postponed but it was growing so late, that my aunt had ordered it to be got ready, when she gave a sudden alarm of donkeys, and to my consternation and amazement, i beheld miss murdstone, on a sidesaddle, ride deliberately over the sacred piece of green, and stop in front of the house, looking about her.

go along with you cried my aunt, shaking her head and her fist at the window. you have no business there. how dare you trespass go along oh you boldfaced thing

my aunt was so exasperated by the coolness with which miss murdstone looked about her, that i really believe she was motionless, and unable for the moment to dart out according to custom. i seized the opportunity to inform her who it was and that the gentleman now coming near the offender for the way up was very steep, and he had dropped behind, was mr. murdstone himself.

i dont care who it is cried my aunt, still shaking her head and gesticulating anything but welcome from the bowwindow. i wont be trespassed upon. i wont allow it. go away janet, turn him round. lead him off and i saw, from behind my aunt, a sort of hurried battlepiece, in which the donkey stood resisting everybody, with all his four legs planted different ways, while janet tried to pull him round by the bridle, mr. murdstone tried to lead him on, miss murdstone struck at janet with a parasol, and several boys, who had come to see the engagement, shouted vigorously. but my aunt, suddenly descrying among them the young malefactor who was the donkeys guardian, and who was one of the most inveterate offenders against her, though hardly in his teens, rushed out to the scene of action, pounced upon him, captured him, dragged him, with his jacket over his head, and his heels grinding the ground, into the garden, and, calling upon janet to fetch the constables and justices, that he might be taken, tried, and executed on the spot, held him at bay there. this part of the business, however, did not last long for the young rascal, being expert at a variety of feints and dodges, of which my aunt had no conception, soon went whooping away, leaving some deep impressions of his nailed boots in the flowerbeds, and taking his donkey in triumph with him.

miss murdstone, during the latter portion of the contest, had dismounted, and was now waiting with her brother at the bottom of the steps, until my aunt should be at leisure to receive them. my aunt, a little ruffled by the combat, marched past them into the house, with great dignity, and took no notice of their presence, until they were announced by janet.

shall i go away, aunt i asked, trembling.

no, sir, said my aunt. certainly not with which she pushed me into a corner near her, and fenced me in with a chair, as if it were a prison or a bar of justice. this position i continued to occupy during the whole interview, and from it i now saw mr. and miss murdstone enter the room.

oh said my aunt, i was not aware at first to whom i had the pleasure of objecting. but i dont allow anybody to ride over that turf. i make no exceptions. i dont allow anybody to do it.

your regulation is rather awkward to strangers, said miss murdstone.

is it said my aunt.

mr. murdstone seemed afraid of a renewal of hostilities, and interposing began miss trotwood

i beg your pardon, observed my aunt with a keen look. you are the mr. murdstone who married the widow of my late nephew, david copperfield, of blunderstone rookery  though why rookery, i dont know

i am, said mr. murdstone.

youll excuse my saying, sir, returned my aunt, that i think it would have been a much better and happier thing if you had left that poor child alone.

i so far agree with what miss trotwood has remarked, observed miss murdstone, bridling, that i consider our lamented clara to have been, in all essential respects, a mere child.

it is a comfort to you and me, maam, said my aunt, who are getting on in life, and are not likely to be made unhappy by our personal attractions, that nobody can say the same of us.

no doubt returned miss murdstone, though, i thought, not with a very ready or gracious assent. and it certainly might have been, as you say, a better and happier thing for my brother if he had never entered into such a marriage. i have always been of that opinion.

i have no doubt you have, said my aunt. janet, ringing the bell, my compliments to mr. dick, and beg him to come down.

until he came, my aunt sat perfectly upright and stiff, frowning at the wall. when he came, my aunt performed the ceremony of introduction.

mr. dick. an old and intimate friend. on whose judgement, said my aunt, with emphasis, as an admonition to mr. dick, who was biting his forefinger and looking rather foolish, i rely.

mr. dick took his finger out of his mouth, on this hint, and stood among the group, with a grave and attentive expression of face.

my aunt inclined her head to mr. murdstone, who went on miss trotwood on the receipt of your letter, i considered it an act of greater justice to myself, and perhaps of more respect to you

thank you, said my aunt, still eyeing him keenly. you neednt mind me.

to answer it in person, however inconvenient the journey, pursued mr. murdstone, rather than by letter. this unhappy boy who has run away from his friends and his occupation 

and whose appearance, interposed his sister, directing general attention to me in my indefinable costume, is perfectly scandalous and disgraceful.

jane murdstone, said her brother, have the goodness not to interrupt me. this unhappy boy, miss trotwood, has been the occasion of much domestic trouble and uneasiness both during the lifetime of my late dear wife, and since. he has a sullen, rebellious spirit a violent temper and an untoward, intractable disposition. both my sister and myself have endeavoured to correct his vices, but ineffectually. and i have felt  we both have felt, i may say my sister being fully in my confidence  that it is right you should receive this grave and dispassionate assurance from our lips.

it can hardly be necessary for me to confirm anything stated by my brother, said miss murdstone but i beg to observe, that, of all the boys in the world, i believe this is the worst boy.

strong said my aunt, shortly.

but not at all too strong for the facts, returned miss murdstone.

ha said my aunt. well, sir

i have my own opinions, resumed mr. murdstone, whose face darkened more and more, the more he and my aunt observed each other, which they did very narrowly, as to the best mode of bringing him up they are founded, in part, on my knowledge of him, and in part on my knowledge of my own means and resources. i am responsible for them to myself, i act upon them, and i say no more about them. it is enough that i place this boy under the eye of a friend of my own, in a respectable business that it does not please him that he runs away from it makes himself a common vagabond about the country and comes here, in rags, to appeal to you, miss trotwood. i wish to set before you, honourably, the exact consequences  so far as they are within my knowledge  of your abetting him in this appeal.

but about the respectable business first, said my aunt. if he had been your own boy, you would have put him to it, just the same, i suppose

if he had been my brothers own boy, returned miss murdstone, striking in, his character, i trust, would have been altogether different.

or if the poor child, his mother, had been alive, he would still have gone into the respectable business, would he said my aunt.

i believe, said mr. murdstone, with an inclination of his head, that clara would have disputed nothing which myself and my sister jane murdstone were agreed was for the best.

miss murdstone confirmed this with an audible murmur.

humph said my aunt. unfortunate baby

mr. dick, who had been rattling his money all this time, was rattling it so loudly now, that my aunt felt it necessary to check him with a look, before saying the poor childs annuity died with her

died with her, replied mr. murdstone.

and there was no settlement of the little property  the house and garden  the whatsitsname rookery without any rooks in it  upon her boy

it had been left to her, unconditionally, by her first husband,

mr. murdstone began, when my aunt caught him up with the greatest irascibility and impatience.

good lord, man, theres no occasion to say that. left to her unconditionally i think i see david copperfield looking forward to any condition of any sort or kind, though it stared him pointblank in the face of course it was left to her unconditionally. but when she married again  when she took that most disastrous step of marrying you, in short, said my aunt, to be plain  did no one put in a word for the boy at that time

my late wife loved her second husband, maam, said mr. murdstone, and trusted implicitly in him.

your late wife, sir, was a most unworldly, most unhappy, most unfortunate baby, returned my aunt, shaking her head at him.

thats what she was. and now, what have you got to say next

merely this, miss trotwood, he returned. i am here to take david back  to take him back unconditionally, to dispose of him as i think proper, and to deal with him as i think right. i am not here to make any promise, or give any pledge to anybody. you may possibly have some idea, miss trotwood, of abetting him in his running away, and in his complaints to you. your manner, which i must say does not seem intended to propitiate, induces me to think it possible. now i must caution you that if you abet him once, you abet him for good and all if you step in between him and me, now, you must step in, miss trotwood, for ever. i cannot trifle, or be trifled with. i am here, for the first and last time, to take him away. is he ready to go if he is not  and you tell me he is not on any pretence it is indifferent to me what  my doors are shut against him henceforth, and yours, i take it for granted, are open to him.

to this address, my aunt had listened with the closest attention, sitting perfectly upright, with her hands folded on one knee, and looking grimly on the speaker. when he had finished, she turned her eyes so as to command miss murdstone, without otherwise disturbing her attitude, and said well, maam, have you got anything to remark

indeed, miss trotwood, said miss murdstone, all that i could say has been so well said by my brother, and all that i know to be the fact has been so plainly stated by him, that i have nothing to add except my thanks for your politeness. for your very great politeness, i am sure, said miss murdstone with an irony which no more affected my aunt, than it discomposed the cannon i had slept by at chatham.

and what does the boy say said my aunt. are you ready to go, david

i answered no, and entreated her not to let me go. i said that neither mr. nor miss murdstone had ever liked me, or had ever been kind to me. that they had made my mama, who always loved me dearly, unhappy about me, and that i knew it well, and that peggotty knew it. i said that i had been more miserable than i thought anybody could believe, who only knew how young i was. and i begged and prayed my aunt  i forget in what terms now, but i remember that they affected me very much then  to befriend and protect me, for my fathers sake.

mr. dick, said my aunt, what shall i do with this child

mr. dick considered, hesitated, brightened, and rejoined, have him measured for a suit of clothes directly.

mr. dick, said my aunt triumphantly, give me your hand, for your common sense is invaluable. having shaken it with great cordiality, she pulled me towards her and said to mr. murdstone you can go when you like ill take my chance with the boy. if hes all you say he is, at least i can do as much for him then, as you have done. but i dont believe a word of it.

miss trotwood, rejoined mr. murdstone, shrugging his shoulders, as he rose, if you were a gentleman 

bah stuff and nonsense said my aunt. dont talk to me

how exquisitely polite exclaimed miss murdstone, rising.

overpowering, really

do you think i dont know, said my aunt, turning a deaf ear to the sister, and continuing to address the brother, and to shake her head at him with infinite expression, what kind of life you must have led that poor, unhappy, misdirected baby do you think i dont know what a woeful day it was for the soft little creature when you first came in her way  smirking and making great eyes at her, ill be bound, as if you couldnt say boh to a goose

i never heard anything so elegant said miss murdstone.

do you think i cant understand you as well as if i had seen you, pursued my aunt, now that i do see and hear you  which, i tell you candidly, is anything but a pleasure to me oh yes, bless us who so smooth and silky as mr. murdstone at first the poor, benighted innocent had never seen such a man. he was made of sweetness. he worshipped her. he doted on her boy  tenderly doted on him he was to be another father to him, and they were all to live together in a garden of roses, werent they ugh get along with you, do said my aunt.

i never heard anything like this person in my life exclaimed miss murdstone.

and when you had made sure of the poor little fool, said my aunt  god forgive me that i should call her so, and she gone where you wont go in a hurry  because you had not done wrong enough to her and hers, you must begin to train her, must you begin to break her, like a poor caged bird, and wear her deluded life away, in teaching her to sing your notes

this is either insanity or intoxication, said miss murdstone, in a perfect agony at not being able to turn the current of my aunts address towards herself and my suspicion is that its intoxication.

miss betsey, without taking the least notice of the interruption, continued to address herself to mr. murdstone as if there had been no such thing.

mr. murdstone, she said, shaking her finger at him, you were a tyrant to the simple baby, and you broke her heart. she was a loving baby  i know that i knew it, years before you ever saw her  and through the best part of her weakness you gave her the wounds she died of. there is the truth for your comfort, however you like it. and you and your instruments may make the most of it.

allow me to inquire, miss trotwood, interposed miss murdstone, whom you are pleased to call, in a choice of words in which i am not experienced, my brothers instruments

it was clear enough, as i have told you, years before you ever saw her  and why, in the mysterious dispensations of providence, you ever did see her, is more than humanity can comprehend  it was clear enough that the poor soft little thing would marry somebody, at some time or other but i did hope it wouldnt have been as bad as it has turned out. that was the time, mr. murdstone, when she gave birth to her boy here, said my aunt to the poor child you sometimes tormented her through afterwards, which is a disagreeable remembrance and makes the sight of him odious now. aye, aye you neednt wince said my aunt. i know its true without that.

he had stood by the door, all this while, observant of her with a smile upon his face, though his black eyebrows were heavily contracted. i remarked now, that, though the smile was on his face still, his colour had gone in a moment, and he seemed to breathe as if he had been running.

good day, sir, said my aunt, and goodbye good day to you, too, maam, said my aunt, turning suddenly upon his sister. let me see you ride a donkey over my green again, and as sure as you have a head upon your shoulders, ill knock your bonnet off, and tread upon it

it would require a painter, and no common painter too, to depict my aunts face as she delivered herself of this very unexpected sentiment, and miss murdstones face as she heard it. but the manner of the speech, no less than the matter, was so fiery, that miss murdstone, without a word in answer, discreetly put her arm through her brothers, and walked haughtily out of the cottage my aunt remaining in the window looking after them prepared, i have no doubt, in case of the donkeys reappearance, to carry her threat into instant execution.

no attempt at defiance being made, however, her face gradually relaxed, and became so pleasant, that i was emboldened to kiss and thank her which i did with great heartiness, and with both my arms clasped round her neck. i then shook hands with mr. dick, who shook hands with me a great many times, and hailed this happy close of the proceedings with repeated bursts of laughter.

youll consider yourself guardian, jointly with me, of this child, mr. dick, said my aunt.

i shall be delighted, said mr. dick, to be the guardian of davids son.

very good, returned my aunt, thats settled. i have been thinking, do you know, mr. dick, that i might call him trotwood

certainly, certainly. call him trotwood, certainly, said mr.

dick. davids sons trotwood.

trotwood copperfield, you mean, returned my aunt.

yes, to be sure. yes. trotwood copperfield, said mr. dick, a little abashed.

my aunt took so kindly to the notion, that some readymade clothes, which were purchased for me that afternoon, were marked trotwood copperfield, in her own handwriting, and in indelible markingink, before i put them on and it was settled that all the other clothes which were ordered to be made for me a complete outfit was bespoke that afternoon should be marked in the same way.

thus i began my new life, in a new name, and with everything new about me. now that the state of doubt was over, i felt, for many days, like one in a dream. i never thought that i had a curious couple of guardians, in my aunt and mr. dick. i never thought of anything about myself, distinctly. the two things clearest in my mind were, that a remoteness had come upon the old blunderstone life  which seemed to lie in the haze of an immeasurable distance and that a curtain had for ever fallen on my life at murdstone and grinbys. no one has ever raised that curtain since. i have lifted it for a moment, even in this narrative, with a reluctant hand, and dropped it gladly. the remembrance of that life is fraught with so much pain to me, with so much mental suffering and want of hope, that i have never had the courage even to examine how long i was doomed to lead it. whether it lasted for a year, or more, or less, i do not know. i only know that it was, and ceased to be and that i have written, and there i leave it.



chapter 

i make another beginning

mr. dick and i soon became the best of friends, and very often, when his days work was done, went out together to fly the great kite. every day of his life he had a long sitting at the memorial, which never made the least progress, however hard he laboured, for king charles the first always strayed into it, sooner or later, and then it was thrown aside, and another one begun. the patience and hope with which he bore these perpetual disappointments, the mild perception he had that there was something wrong about king charles the first, the feeble efforts he made to keep him out, and the certainty with which he came in, and tumbled the memorial out of all shape, made a deep impression on me. what mr. dick supposed would come of the memorial, if it were completed where he thought it was to go, or what he thought it was to do he knew no more than anybody else, i believe. nor was it at all necessary that he should trouble himself with such questions, for if anything were certain under the sun, it was certain that the memorial never would be finished. it was quite an affecting sight, i used to think, to see him with the kite when it was up a great height in the air.

what he had told me, in his room, about his belief in its disseminating the statements pasted on it, which were nothing but old leaves of abortive memorials, might have been a fancy with him sometimes but not when he was out, looking up at the kite in the sky, and feeling it pull and tug at his hand. he never looked so serene as he did then. i used to fancy, as i sat by him of an evening, on a green slope, and saw him watch the kite high in the quiet air, that it lifted his mind out of its confusion, and bore it such was my boyish thought into the skies. as he wound the string in and it came lower and lower down out of the beautiful light, until it fluttered to the ground, and lay there like a dead thing, he seemed to wake gradually out of a dream and i remember to have seen him take it up, and look about him in a lost way, as if they had both come down together, so that i pitied him with all my heart.

while i advanced in friendship and intimacy with mr. dick, i did not go backward in the favour of his staunch friend, my aunt. she took so kindly to me, that, in the course of a few weeks, she shortened my adopted name of trotwood into trot and even encouraged me to hope, that if i went on as i had begun, i might take equal rank in her affections with my sister betsey trotwood.

trot, said my aunt one evening, when the backgammonboard was placed as usual for herself and mr. dick, we must not forget your education.

this was my only subject of anxiety, and i felt quite delighted by her referring to it.

should you like to go to school at canterbury said my aunt.

i replied that i should like it very much, as it was so near her.

good, said my aunt. should you like to go tomorrow

being already no stranger to the general rapidity of my aunts evolutions, i was not surprised by the suddenness of the proposal, and said yes.

good, said my aunt again. janet, hire the grey pony and chaise tomorrow morning at ten oclock, and pack up master trotwoods clothes tonight.

i was greatly elated by these orders but my heart smote me for my selfishness, when i witnessed their effect on mr. dick, who was so lowspirited at the prospect of our separation, and played so ill in consequence, that my aunt, after giving him several admonitory raps on the knuckles with her dicebox, shut up the board, and declined to play with him any more. but, on hearing from my aunt that i should sometimes come over on a saturday, and that he could sometimes come and see me on a wednesday, he revived and vowed to make another kite for those occasions, of proportions greatly surpassing the present one. in the morning he was downhearted again, and would have sustained himself by giving me all the money he had in his possession, gold and silver too, if my aunt had not interposed, and limited the gift to five shillings, which, at his earnest petition, were afterwards increased to ten. we parted at the gardengate in a most affectionate manner, and mr. dick did not go into the house until my aunt had driven me out of sight of it.

my aunt, who was perfectly indifferent to public opinion, drove the grey pony through dover in a masterly manner sitting high and stiff like a state coachman, keeping a steady eye upon him wherever he went, and making a point of not letting him have his own way in any respect. when we came into the country road, she permitted him to relax a little, however and looking at me down in a valley of cushion by her side, asked me whether i was happy very happy indeed, thank you, aunt, i said.

she was much gratified and both her hands being occupied, patted me on the head with her whip.

is it a large school, aunt i asked.

why, i dont know, said my aunt. we are going to mr.

wickfields first.

does he keep a school i asked.

no, trot, said my aunt. he keeps an office.

i asked for no more information about mr. wickfield, as she offered none, and we conversed on other subjects until we came to canterbury, where, as it was marketday, my aunt had a great opportunity of insinuating the grey pony among carts, baskets, vegetables, and hucksters goods. the hairbreadth turns and twists we made, drew down upon us a variety of speeches from the people standing about, which were not always complimentary but my aunt drove on with perfect indifference, and i dare say would have taken her own way with as much coolness through an enemys country.

at length we stopped before a very old house bulging out over the road a house with long low latticewindows bulging out still farther, and beams with carved heads on the ends bulging out too, so that i fancied the whole house was leaning forward, trying to see who was passing on the narrow pavement below. it was quite spotless in its cleanliness. the oldfashioned brass knocker on the low arched door, ornamented with carved garlands of fruit and flowers, twinkled like a star the two stone steps descending to the door were as white as if they had been covered with fair linen and all the angles and corners, and carvings and mouldings, and quaint little panes of glass, and quainter little windows, though as old as the hills, were as pure as any snow that ever fell upon the hills.

when the ponychaise stopped at the door, and my eyes were intent upon the house, i saw a cadaverous face appear at a small window on the ground floor in a little round tower that formed one side of the house, and quickly disappear. the low arched door then opened, and the face came out. it was quite as cadaverous as it had looked in the window, though in the grain of it there was that tinge of red which is sometimes to be observed in the skins of redhaired people. it belonged to a redhaired person  a youth of fifteen, as i take it now, but looking much older  whose hair was cropped as close as the closest stubble who had hardly any eyebrows, and no eyelashes, and eyes of a redbrown, so unsheltered and unshaded, that i remember wondering how he went to sleep. he was highshouldered and bony dressed in decent black, with a white wisp of a neckcloth buttoned up to the throat and had a long, lank, skeleton hand, which particularly attracted my attention, as he stood at the ponys head, rubbing his chin with it, and looking up at us in the chaise.

is mr. wickfield at home, uriah heep said my aunt.

mr. wickfields at home, maam, said uriah heep, if youll please to walk in there  pointing with his long hand to the room he meant.

we got out and leaving him to hold the pony, went into a long low parlour looking towards the street, from the window of which i caught a glimpse, as i went in, of uriah heep breathing into the ponys nostrils, and immediately covering them with his hand, as if he were putting some spell upon him. opposite to the tall old chimneypiece were two portraits one of a gentleman with grey hair though not by any means an old man and black eyebrows, who was looking over some papers tied together with red tape the other, of a lady, with a very placid and sweet expression of face, who was looking at me.

i believe i was turning about in search of uriahs picture, when, a door at the farther end of the room opening, a gentleman entered, at sight of whom i turned to the firstmentioned portrait again, to make quite sure that it had not come out of its frame. but it was stationary and as the gentleman advanced into the light, i saw that he was some years older than when he had had his picture painted.

miss betsey trotwood, said the gentleman, pray walk in. i was engaged for a moment, but youll excuse my being busy. you know my motive. i have but one in life.

miss betsey thanked him, and we went into his room, which was furnished as an office, with books, papers, tin boxes, and so forth. it looked into a garden, and had an iron safe let into the wall so immediately over the mantelshelf, that i wondered, as i sat down, how the sweeps got round it when they swept the chimney.

well, miss trotwood, said mr. wickfield for i soon found that it was he, and that he was a lawyer, and steward of the estates of a rich gentleman of the county what wind blows you here not an ill wind, i hope

no, replied my aunt. i have not come for any law.

thats right, maam, said mr. wickfield. you had better come for anything else.

his hair was quite white now, though his eyebrows were still black.

he had a very agreeable face, and, i thought, was handsome. there was a certain richness in his complexion, which i had been long accustomed, under peggottys tuition, to connect with port wine and i fancied it was in his voice too, and referred his growing corpulency to the same cause. he was very cleanly dressed, in a blue coat, striped waistcoat, and nankeen trousers and his fine frilled shirt and cambric neckcloth looked unusually soft and white, reminding my strolling fancy i call to mind of the plumage on the breast of a swan.

this is my nephew, said my aunt.

wasnt aware you had one, miss trotwood, said mr. wickfield.

my grandnephew, that is to say, observed my aunt.

wasnt aware you had a grandnephew, i give you my word, said mr.

wickfield.

i have adopted him, said my aunt, with a wave of her hand, importing that his knowledge and his ignorance were all one to her, and i have brought him here, to put to a school where he may be thoroughly well taught, and well treated. now tell me where that school is, and what it is, and all about it.

before i can advise you properly, said mr. wickfield  the old question, you know. whats your motive in this

deuce take the man exclaimed my aunt. always fishing for motives, when theyre on the surface why, to make the child happy and useful.

it must be a mixed motive, i think, said mr. wickfield, shaking his head and smiling incredulously.

a mixed fiddlestick, returned my aunt. you claim to have one plain motive in all you do yourself. you dont suppose, i hope, that you are the only plain dealer in the world

ay, but i have only one motive in life, miss trotwood, he rejoined, smiling. other people have dozens, scores, hundreds.

i have only one. theres the difference. however, thats beside the question. the best school whatever the motive, you want the best

my aunt nodded assent.

at the best we have, said mr. wickfield, considering, your nephew couldnt board just now.

but he could board somewhere else, i suppose suggested my aunt.

mr. wickfield thought i could. after a little discussion, he proposed to take my aunt to the school, that she might see it and judge for herself also, to take her, with the same object, to two or three houses where he thought i could be boarded. my aunt embracing the proposal, we were all three going out together, when he stopped and said our little friend here might have some motive, perhaps, for objecting to the arrangements. i think we had better leave him behind

my aunt seemed disposed to contest the point but to facilitate matters i said i would gladly remain behind, if they pleased and returned into mr. wickfields office, where i sat down again, in the chair i had first occupied, to await their return.

it so happened that this chair was opposite a narrow passage, which ended in the little circular room where i had seen uriah heeps pale face looking out of the window. uriah, having taken the pony to a neighbouring stable, was at work at a desk in this room, which had a brass frame on the top to hang paper upon, and on which the writing he was making a copy of was then hanging. though his face was towards me, i thought, for some time, the writing being between us, that he could not see me but looking that way more attentively, it made me uncomfortable to observe that, every now and then, his sleepless eyes would come below the writing, like two red suns, and stealthily stare at me for i dare say a whole minute at a time, during which his pen went, or pretended to go, as cleverly as ever. i made several attempts to get out of their way  such as standing on a chair to look at a map on the other side of the room, and poring over the columns of a kentish newspaper  but they always attracted me back again and whenever i looked towards those two red suns, i was sure to find them, either just rising or just setting.

at length, much to my relief, my aunt and mr. wickfield came back, after a pretty long absence. they were not so successful as i could have wished for though the advantages of the school were undeniable, my aunt had not approved of any of the boardinghouses proposed for me.

its very unfortunate, said my aunt. i dont know what to do, trot.

it does happen unfortunately, said mr. wickfield. but ill tell you what you can do, miss trotwood.

whats that inquired my aunt.

leave your nephew here, for the present. hes a quiet fellow. he wont disturb me at all. its a capital house for study. as quiet as a monastery, and almost as roomy. leave him here.

my aunt evidently liked the offer, though she was delicate of accepting it. so did i.

come, miss trotwood, said mr. wickfield. this is the way out of the difficulty. its only a temporary arrangement, you know. if it dont act well, or dont quite accord with our mutual convenience, he can easily go to the rightabout. there will be time to find some better place for him in the meanwhile. you had better determine to leave him here for the present

i am very much obliged to you, said my aunt and so is he, i see but 

come i know what you mean, cried mr. wickfield. you shall not be oppressed by the receipt of favours, miss trotwood. you may pay for him, if you like. we wont be hard about terms, but you shall pay if you will.

on that understanding, said my aunt, though it doesnt lessen the real obligation, i shall be very glad to leave him.

then come and see my little housekeeper, said mr. wickfield.

we accordingly went up a wonderful old staircase with a balustrade so broad that we might have gone up that, almost as easily and into a shady old drawingroom, lighted by some three or four of the quaint windows i had looked up at from the street which had old oak seats in them, that seemed to have come of the same trees as the shining oak floor, and the great beams in the ceiling. it was a prettily furnished room, with a piano and some lively furniture in red and green, and some flowers. it seemed to be all old nooks and corners and in every nook and corner there was some queer little table, or cupboard, or bookcase, or seat, or something or other, that made me think there was not such another good corner in the room until i looked at the next one, and found it equal to it, if not better. on everything there was the same air of retirement and cleanliness that marked the house outside.

mr. wickfield tapped at a door in a corner of the panelled wall, and a girl of about my own age came quickly out and kissed him. on her face, i saw immediately the placid and sweet expression of the lady whose picture had looked at me downstairs. it seemed to my imagination as if the portrait had grown womanly, and the original remained a child. although her face was quite bright and happy, there was a tranquillity about it, and about her  a quiet, good, calm spirit  that i never have forgotten that i shall never forget. this was his little housekeeper, his daughter agnes, mr.

wickfield said. when i heard how he said it, and saw how he held her hand, i guessed what the one motive of his life was.

she had a little baskettrifle hanging at her side, with keys in it and she looked as staid and as discreet a housekeeper as the old house could have. she listened to her father as he told her about me, with a pleasant face and when he had concluded, proposed to my aunt that we should go upstairs and see my room. we all went together, she before us and a glorious old room it was, with more oak beams, and diamond panes and the broad balustrade going all the way up to it.

i cannot call to mind where or when, in my childhood, i had seen a stained glass window in a church. nor do i recollect its subject.

but i know that when i saw her turn round, in the grave light of the old staircase, and wait for us, above, i thought of that window and i associated something of its tranquil brightness with agnes wickfield ever afterwards.

my aunt was as happy as i was, in the arrangement made for me and we went down to the drawingroom again, well pleased and gratified.

as she would not hear of staying to dinner, lest she should by any chance fail to arrive at home with the grey pony before dark and as i apprehend mr. wickfield knew her too well to argue any point with her some lunch was provided for her there, and agnes went back to her governess, and mr. wickfield to his office. so we were left to take leave of one another without any restraint.

she told me that everything would be arranged for me by mr.

wickfield, and that i should want for nothing, and gave me the kindest words and the best advice.

trot, said my aunt in conclusion, be a credit to yourself, to me, and mr. dick, and heaven be with you

i was greatly overcome, and could only thank her, again and again, and send my love to mr. dick.

never, said my aunt, be mean in anything never be false never be cruel. avoid those three vices, trot, and i can always be hopeful of you.

i promised, as well as i could, that i would not abuse her kindness or forget her admonition.

the ponys at the door, said my aunt, and i am off stay here.

with these words she embraced me hastily, and went out of the room, shutting the door after her. at first i was startled by so abrupt a departure, and almost feared i had displeased her but when i looked into the street, and saw how dejectedly she got into the chaise, and drove away without looking up, i understood her better and did not do her that injustice.

by five oclock, which was mr. wickfields dinnerhour, i had mustered up my spirits again, and was ready for my knife and fork.

the cloth was only laid for us two but agnes was waiting in the drawingroom before dinner, went down with her father, and sat opposite to him at table. i doubted whether he could have dined without her.

we did not stay there, after dinner, but came upstairs into the drawingroom again in one snug corner of which, agnes set glasses for her father, and a decanter of port wine. i thought he would have missed its usual flavour, if it had been put there for him by any other hands.

there he sat, taking his wine, and taking a good deal of it, for two hours while agnes played on the piano, worked, and talked to him and me. he was, for the most part, gay and cheerful with us but sometimes his eyes rested on her, and he fell into a brooding state, and was silent. she always observed this quickly, i thought, and always roused him with a question or caress. then he came out of his meditation, and drank more wine.

agnes made the tea, and presided over it and the time passed away after it, as after dinner, until she went to bed when her father took her in his arms and kissed her, and, she being gone, ordered candles in his office. then i went to bed too.

but in the course of the evening i had rambled down to the door, and a little way along the street, that i might have another peep at the old houses, and the grey cathedral and might think of my coming through that old city on my journey, and of my passing the very house i lived in, without knowing it. as i came back, i saw uriah heep shutting up the office and feeling friendly towards everybody, went in and spoke to him, and at parting, gave him my hand. but oh, what a clammy hand his was as ghostly to the touch as to the sight i rubbed mine afterwards, to warm it, and to rub his off.

it was such an uncomfortable hand, that, when i went to my room, it was still cold and wet upon my memory. leaning out of the window, and seeing one of the faces on the beamends looking at me sideways, i fancied it was uriah heep got up there somehow, and shut him out in a hurry.



chapter 

i am a new boy in more senses than one

next morning, after breakfast, i entered on school life again. i went, accompanied by mr. wickfield, to the scene of my future studies  a grave building in a courtyard, with a learned air about it that seemed very well suited to the stray rooks and jackdaws who came down from the cathedral towers to walk with a clerkly bearing on the grassplot  and was introduced to my new master, doctor strong.

doctor strong looked almost as rusty, to my thinking, as the tall iron rails and gates outside the house and almost as stiff and heavy as the great stone urns that flanked them, and were set up, on the top of the redbrick wall, at regular distances all round the court, like sublimated skittles, for time to play at. he was in his library i mean doctor strong was, with his clothes not particularly well brushed, and his hair not particularly well combed his kneesmalls unbraced his long black gaiters unbuttoned and his shoes yawning like two caverns on the hearthrug. turning upon me a lustreless eye, that reminded me of a longforgotten blind old horse who once used to crop the grass, and tumble over the graves, in blunderstone churchyard, he said he was glad to see me and then he gave me his hand which i didnt know what to do with, as it did nothing for itself.

but, sitting at work, not far from doctor strong, was a very pretty young lady  whom he called annie, and who was his daughter, i supposed  who got me out of my difficulty by kneeling down to put doctor strongs shoes on, and button his gaiters, which she did with great cheerfulness and quickness. when she had finished, and we were going out to the schoolroom, i was much surprised to hear mr. wickfield, in bidding her good morning, address her as mrs.

strong and i was wondering could she be doctor strongs sons wife, or could she be mrs. doctor strong, when doctor strong himself unconsciously enlightened me.

by the by, wickfield, he said, stopping in a passage with his hand on my shoulder you have not found any suitable provision for my wifes cousin yet

no, said mr. wickfield. no. not yet.

i could wish it done as soon as it can be done, wickfield, said doctor strong, for jack maldon is needy, and idle and of those two bad things, worse things sometimes come. what does doctor watts say, he added, looking at me, and moving his head to the time of his quotation, satan finds some mischief still, for idle hands to do.

egad, doctor, returned mr. wickfield, if doctor watts knew mankind, he might have written, with as much truth, satan finds some mischief still, for busy hands to do. the busy people achieve their full share of mischief in the world, you may rely upon it.

what have the people been about, who have been the busiest in getting money, and in getting power, this century or two no mischief

jack maldon will never be very busy in getting either, i expect, said doctor strong, rubbing his chin thoughtfully.

perhaps not, said mr. wickfield and you bring me back to the question, with an apology for digressing. no, i have not been able to dispose of mr. jack maldon yet. i believe, he said this with some hesitation, i penetrate your motive, and it makes the thing more difficult.

my motive, returned doctor strong, is to make some suitable provision for a cousin, and an old playfellow, of annies.

yes, i know, said mr. wickfield at home or abroad.

aye replied the doctor, apparently wondering why he emphasized those words so much. at home or abroad.

your own expression, you know, said mr. wickfield. or abroad.

surely, the doctor answered. surely. one or other.

one or other have you no choice asked mr. wickfield.

no, returned the doctor.

no with astonishment.

not the least.

no motive, said mr. wickfield, for meaning abroad, and not at home

no, returned the doctor.

i am bound to believe you, and of course i do believe you, said mr. wickfield. it might have simplified my office very much, if i had known it before. but i confess i entertained another impression.

doctor strong regarded him with a puzzled and doubting look, which almost immediately subsided into a smile that gave me great encouragement for it was full of amiability and sweetness, and there was a simplicity in it, and indeed in his whole manner, when the studious, pondering frost upon it was got through, very attractive and hopeful to a young scholar like me. repeating no, and not the least, and other short assurances to the same purport, doctor strong jogged on before us, at a queer, uneven pace and we followed mr. wickfield, looking grave, i observed, and shaking his head to himself, without knowing that i saw him.

the schoolroom was a pretty large hall, on the quietest side of the house, confronted by the stately stare of some halfdozen of the great urns, and commanding a peep of an old secluded garden belonging to the doctor, where the peaches were ripening on the sunny south wall. there were two great aloes, in tubs, on the turf outside the windows the broad hard leaves of which plant looking as if they were made of painted tin have ever since, by association, been symbolical to me of silence and retirement.

about fiveandtwenty boys were studiously engaged at their books when we went in, but they rose to give the doctor good morning, and remained standing when they saw mr. wickfield and me.

a new boy, young gentlemen, said the doctor trotwood copperfield.

one adams, who was the headboy, then stepped out of his place and welcomed me. he looked like a young clergyman, in his white cravat, but he was very affable and goodhumoured and he showed me my place, and presented me to the masters, in a gentlemanly way that would have put me at my ease, if anything could.

it seemed to me so long, however, since i had been among such boys, or among any companions of my own age, except mick walker and mealy potatoes, that i felt as strange as ever i have done in my life.

i was so conscious of having passed through scenes of which they could have no knowledge, and of having acquired experiences foreign to my age, appearance, and condition as one of them, that i half believed it was an imposture to come there as an ordinary little schoolboy. i had become, in the murdstone and grinby time, however short or long it may have been, so unused to the sports and games of boys, that i knew i was awkward and inexperienced in the commonest things belonging to them. whatever i had learnt, had so slipped away from me in the sordid cares of my life from day to night, that now, when i was examined about what i knew, i knew nothing, and was put into the lowest form of the school. but, troubled as i was, by my want of boyish skill, and of booklearning too, i was made infinitely more uncomfortable by the consideration, that, in what i did know, i was much farther removed from my companions than in what i did not. my mind ran upon what they would think, if they knew of my familiar acquaintance with the kings bench prison was there anything about me which would reveal my proceedings in connexion with the micawber family  all those pawnings, and sellings, and suppers  in spite of myself

suppose some of the boys had seen me coming through canterbury, wayworn and ragged, and should find me out what would they say, who made so light of money, if they could know how i had scraped my halfpence together, for the purchase of my daily saveloy and beer, or my slices of pudding how would it affect them, who were so innocent of london life, and london streets, to discover how knowing i was and was ashamed to be in some of the meanest phases of both all this ran in my head so much, on that first day at doctor strongs, that i felt distrustful of my slightest look and gesture shrunk within myself whensoever i was approached by one of my new schoolfellows and hurried off the minute school was over, afraid of committing myself in my response to any friendly notice or advance.

but there was such an influence in mr. wickfields old house, that when i knocked at it, with my new schoolbooks under my arm, i began to feel my uneasiness softening away. as i went up to my airy old room, the grave shadow of the staircase seemed to fall upon my doubts and fears, and to make the past more indistinct. i sat there, sturdily conning my books, until dinnertime we were out of school for good at three and went down, hopeful of becoming a passable sort of boy yet.

agnes was in the drawingroom, waiting for her father, who was detained by someone in his office. she met me with her pleasant smile, and asked me how i liked the school. i told her i should like it very much, i hoped but i was a little strange to it at first.

you have never been to school, i said, have you

oh yes every day.

ah, but you mean here, at your own home

papa couldnt spare me to go anywhere else, she answered, smiling and shaking her head. his housekeeper must be in his house, you know.

he is very fond of you, i am sure, i said.

she nodded yes, and went to the door to listen for his coming up, that she might meet him on the stairs. but, as he was not there, she came back again.

mama has been dead ever since i was born, she said, in her quiet way. i only know her picture, downstairs. i saw you looking at it yesterday. did you think whose it was

i told her yes, because it was so like herself.

papa says so, too, said agnes, pleased. hark thats papa now

her bright calm face lighted up with pleasure as she went to meet him, and as they came in, hand in hand. he greeted me cordially and told me i should certainly be happy under doctor strong, who was one of the gentlest of men.

there may be some, perhaps  i dont know that there are  who abuse his kindness, said mr. wickfield. never be one of those, trotwood, in anything. he is the least suspicious of mankind and whether thats a merit, or whether its a blemish, it deserves consideration in all dealings with the doctor, great or small.

he spoke, i thought, as if he were weary, or dissatisfied with something but i did not pursue the question in my mind, for dinner was just then announced, and we went down and took the same seats as before.

we had scarcely done so, when uriah heep put in his red head and his lank hand at the door, and said heres mr. maldon begs the favour of a word, sir.

i am but this moment quit of mr. maldon, said his master.

yes, sir, returned uriah but mr. maldon has come back, and he begs the favour of a word.

as he held the door open with his hand, uriah looked at me, and looked at agnes, and looked at the dishes, and looked at the plates, and looked at every object in the room, i thought,  yet seemed to look at nothing he made such an appearance all the while of keeping his red eyes dutifully on his master.

i beg your pardon. its only to say, on reflection, observed a voice behind uriah, as uriahs head was pushed away, and the speakers substituted  pray excuse me for this intrusion  that as it seems i have no choice in the matter, the sooner i go abroad the better. my cousin annie did say, when we talked of it, that she liked to have her friends within reach rather than to have them banished, and the old doctor 

doctor strong, was that mr. wickfield interposed, gravely.

doctor strong, of course, returned the other i call him the old doctor its all the same, you know.

i dont know, returned mr. wickfield.

well, doctor strong, said the other  doctor strong was of the same mind, i believed. but as it appears from the course you take with me he has changed his mind, why theres no more to be said, except that the sooner i am off, the better. therefore, i thought id come back and say, that the sooner i am off the better. when a plunge is to be made into the water, its of no use lingering on the bank.

there shall be as little lingering as possible, in your case, mr.

maldon, you may depend upon it, said mr. wickfield.

thankee, said the other. much obliged. i dont want to look a gifthorse in the mouth, which is not a gracious thing to do otherwise, i dare say, my cousin annie could easily arrange it in her own way. i suppose annie would only have to say to the old doctor 

meaning that mrs. strong would only have to say to her husband  do i follow you said mr. wickfield.

quite so, returned the other,  would only have to say, that she wanted such and such a thing to be so and so and it would be so and so, as a matter of course.

and why as a matter of course, mr. maldon asked mr. wickfield, sedately eating his dinner.

why, because annies a charming young girl, and the old doctor  doctor strong, i mean  is not quite a charming young boy, said mr. jack maldon, laughing. no offence to anybody, mr. wickfield.

i only mean that i suppose some compensation is fair and reasonable in that sort of marriage.

compensation to the lady, sir asked mr. wickfield gravely.

to the lady, sir, mr. jack maldon answered, laughing. but appearing to remark that mr. wickfield went on with his dinner in the same sedate, immovable manner, and that there was no hope of making him relax a muscle of his face, he added however, i have said what i came to say, and, with another apology for this intrusion, i may take myself off. of course i shall observe your directions, in considering the matter as one to be arranged between you and me solely, and not to be referred to, up at the doctors.

have you dined asked mr. wickfield, with a motion of his hand towards the table.

thankee. i am going to dine, said mr. maldon, with my cousin annie. goodbye

mr. wickfield, without rising, looked after him thoughtfully as he went out. he was rather a shallow sort of young gentleman, i thought, with a handsome face, a rapid utterance, and a confident, bold air. and this was the first i ever saw of mr. jack maldon whom i had not expected to see so soon, when i heard the doctor speak of him that morning.

when we had dined, we went upstairs again, where everything went on exactly as on the previous day. agnes set the glasses and decanters in the same corner, and mr. wickfield sat down to drink, and drank a good deal. agnes played the piano to him, sat by him, and worked and talked, and played some games at dominoes with me.

in good time she made tea and afterwards, when i brought down my books, looked into them, and showed me what she knew of them which was no slight matter, though she said it was, and what was the best way to learn and understand them. i see her, with her modest, orderly, placid manner, and i hear her beautiful calm voice, as i write these words. the influence for all good, which she came to exercise over me at a later time, begins already to descend upon my breast. i love little emly, and i dont love agnes  no, not at all in that way  but i feel that there are goodness, peace, and truth, wherever agnes is and that the soft light of the coloured window in the church, seen long ago, falls on her always, and on me when i am near her, and on everything around.

the time having come for her withdrawal for the night, and she having left us, i gave mr. wickfield my hand, preparatory to going away myself. but he checked me and said should you like to stay with us, trotwood, or to go elsewhere

to stay, i answered, quickly.

you are sure

if you please. if i may

why, its but a dull life that we lead here, boy, i am afraid, he said.

not more dull for me than agnes, sir. not dull at all

than agnes, he repeated, walking slowly to the great chimneypiece, and leaning against it. than agnes

he had drank wine that evening or i fancied it, until his eyes were bloodshot. not that i could see them now, for they were cast down, and shaded by his hand but i had noticed them a little while before.

now i wonder, he muttered, whether my agnes tires of me. when should i ever tire of her but thats different, thats quite different.

he was musing, not speaking to me so i remained quiet.

a dull old house, he said, and a monotonous life but i must have her near me. i must keep her near me. if the thought that i may die and leave my darling, or that my darling may die and leave me, comes like a spectre, to distress my happiest hours, and is only to be drowned in 

he did not supply the word but pacing slowly to the place where he had sat, and mechanically going through the action of pouring wine from the empty decanter, set it down and paced back again.

if it is miserable to bear, when she is here, he said, what would it be, and she away no, no, no. i cannot try that.

he leaned against the chimneypiece, brooding so long that i could not decide whether to run the risk of disturbing him by going, or to remain quietly where i was, until he should come out of his reverie. at length he aroused himself, and looked about the room until his eyes encountered mine.

stay with us, trotwood, eh he said in his usual manner, and as if he were answering something i had just said. i am glad of it.

you are company to us both. it is wholesome to have you here.

wholesome for me, wholesome for agnes, wholesome perhaps for all of us.

i am sure it is for me, sir, i said. i am so glad to be here.

thats a fine fellow said mr. wickfield. as long as you are glad to be here, you shall stay here. he shook hands with me upon it, and clapped me on the back and told me that when i had anything to do at night after agnes had left us, or when i wished to read for my own pleasure, i was free to come down to his room, if he were there and if i desired it for companys sake, and to sit with him. i thanked him for his consideration and, as he went down soon afterwards, and i was not tired, went down too, with a book in my hand, to avail myself, for halfanhour, of his permission.

but, seeing a light in the little round office, and immediately feeling myself attracted towards uriah heep, who had a sort of fascination for me, i went in there instead. i found uriah reading a great fat book, with such demonstrative attention, that his lank forefinger followed up every line as he read, and made clammy tracks along the page or so i fully believed like a snail.

you are working late tonight, uriah, says i.

yes, master copperfield, says uriah.

as i was getting on the stool opposite, to talk to him more conveniently, i observed that he had not such a thing as a smile about him, and that he could only widen his mouth and make two hard creases down his cheeks, one on each side, to stand for one.

i am not doing officework, master copperfield, said uriah.

what work, then i asked.

i am improving my legal knowledge, master copperfield, said uriah. i am going through tidds practice. oh, what a writer mr.

tidd is, master copperfield

my stool was such a tower of observation, that as i watched him reading on again, after this rapturous exclamation, and following up the lines with his forefinger, i observed that his nostrils, which were thin and pointed, with sharp dints in them, had a singular and most uncomfortable way of expanding and contracting themselves  that they seemed to twinkle instead of his eyes, which hardly ever twinkled at all.

i suppose you are quite a great lawyer i said, after looking at him for some time.

me, master copperfield said uriah. oh, no im a very umble person.

it was no fancy of mine about his hands, i observed for he frequently ground the palms against each other as if to squeeze them dry and warm, besides often wiping them, in a stealthy way, on his pockethandkerchief.

i am well aware that i am the umblest person going, said uriah heep, modestly let the other be where he may. my mother is likewise a very umble person. we live in a numble abode, master copperfield, but have much to be thankful for. my fathers former calling was umble. he was a sexton.

what is he now i asked.

he is a partaker of glory at present, master copperfield, said uriah heep. but we have much to be thankful for. how much have i to be thankful for in living with mr. wickfield

i asked uriah if he had been with mr. wickfield long i have been with him, going on four year, master copperfield, said uriah shutting up his book, after carefully marking the place where he had left off. since a year after my fathers death. how much have i to be thankful for, in that how much have i to be thankful for, in mr. wickfields kind intention to give me my articles, which would otherwise not lay within the umble means of mother and self

then, when your articled time is over, youll be a regular lawyer, i suppose said i.

with the blessing of providence, master copperfield, returned uriah.

perhaps youll be a partner in mr. wickfields business, one of these days, i said, to make myself agreeable and it will be wickfield and heep, or heep late wickfield.

oh no, master copperfield, returned uriah, shaking his head, i am much too umble for that

he certainly did look uncommonly like the carved face on the beam outside my window, as he sat, in his humility, eyeing me sideways, with his mouth widened, and the creases in his cheeks.

mr. wickfield is a most excellent man, master copperfield, said uriah. if you have known him long, you know it, i am sure, much better than i can inform you.

i replied that i was certain he was but that i had not known him long myself, though he was a friend of my aunts.

oh, indeed, master copperfield, said uriah. your aunt is a sweet lady, master copperfield

he had a way of writhing when he wanted to express enthusiasm, which was very ugly and which diverted my attention from the compliment he had paid my relation, to the snaky twistings of his throat and body.

a sweet lady, master copperfield said uriah heep. she has a great admiration for miss agnes, master copperfield, i believe

i said, yes, boldly not that i knew anything about it, heaven forgive me i hope you have, too, master copperfield, said uriah. but i am sure you must have.

everybody must have, i returned.

oh, thank you, master copperfield, said uriah heep, for that remark it is so true umble as i am, i know it is so true oh, thank you, master copperfield

he writhed himself quite off his stool in the excitement of his feelings, and, being off, began to make arrangements for going home.

mother will be expecting me, he said, referring to a pale, inexpressivefaced watch in his pocket, and getting uneasy for though we are very umble, master copperfield, we are much attached to one another. if you would come and see us, any afternoon, and take a cup of tea at our lowly dwelling, mother would be as proud of your company as i should be.

i said i should be glad to come.

thank you, master copperfield, returned uriah, putting his book away upon the shelf  i suppose you stop here, some time, master copperfield

i said i was going to be brought up there, i believed, as long as i remained at school.

oh, indeed exclaimed uriah. i should think you would come into the business at last, master copperfield

i protested that i had no views of that sort, and that no such scheme was entertained in my behalf by anybody but uriah insisted on blandly replying to all my assurances, oh, yes, master copperfield, i should think you would, indeed and, oh, indeed, master copperfield, i should think you would, certainly over and over again. being, at last, ready to leave the office for the night, he asked me if it would suit my convenience to have the light put out and on my answering yes, instantly extinguished it. after shaking hands with me  his hand felt like a fish, in the dark  he opened the door into the street a very little, and crept out, and shut it, leaving me to grope my way back into the house which cost me some trouble and a fall over his stool. this was the proximate cause, i suppose, of my dreaming about him, for what appeared to me to be half the night and dreaming, among other things, that he had launched mr. peggottys house on a piratical expedition, with a black flag at the masthead, bearing the inscription tidds practice, under which diabolical ensign he was carrying me and little emly to the spanish main, to be drowned.

i got a little the better of my uneasiness when i went to school next day, and a good deal the better next day, and so shook it off by degrees, that in less than a fortnight i was quite at home, and happy, among my new companions. i was awkward enough in their games, and backward enough in their studies but custom would improve me in the first respect, i hoped, and hard work in the second. accordingly, i went to work very hard, both in play and in earnest, and gained great commendation. and, in a very little while, the murdstone and grinby life became so strange to me that i hardly believed in it, while my present life grew so familiar, that i seemed to have been leading it a long time.

doctor strongs was an excellent school as different from mr.

creakles as good is from evil. it was very gravely and decorously ordered, and on a sound system with an appeal, in everything, to the honour and good faith of the boys, and an avowed intention to rely on their possession of those qualities unless they proved themselves unworthy of it, which worked wonders. we all felt that we had a part in the management of the place, and in sustaining its character and dignity. hence, we soon became warmly attached to it  i am sure i did for one, and i never knew, in all my time, of any other boy being otherwise  and learnt with a good will, desiring to do it credit. we had noble games out of hours, and plenty of liberty but even then, as i remember, we were well spoken of in the town, and rarely did any disgrace, by our appearance or manner, to the reputation of doctor strong and doctor strongs boys.

some of the higher scholars boarded in the doctors house, and through them i learned, at second hand, some particulars of the doctors history  as, how he had not yet been married twelve months to the beautiful young lady i had seen in the study, whom he had married for love for she had not a sixpence, and had a world of poor relations so our fellows said ready to swarm the doctor out of house and home. also, how the doctors cogitating manner was attributable to his being always engaged in looking out for greek roots which, in my innocence and ignorance, i supposed to be a botanical furor on the doctors part, especially as he always looked at the ground when he walked about, until i understood that they were roots of words, with a view to a new dictionary which he had in contemplation. adams, our headboy, who had a turn for mathematics, had made a calculation, i was informed, of the time this dictionary would take in completing, on the doctors plan, and at the doctors rate of going. he considered that it might be done in one thousand six hundred and fortynine years, counting from the doctors last, or sixtysecond, birthday.

but the doctor himself was the idol of the whole school and it must have been a badly composed school if he had been anything else, for he was the kindest of men with a simple faith in him that might have touched the stone hearts of the very urns upon the wall. as he walked up and down that part of the courtyard which was at the side of the house, with the stray rooks and jackdaws looking after him with their heads cocked slyly, as if they knew how much more knowing they were in worldly affairs than he, if any sort of vagabond could only get near enough to his creaking shoes to attract his attention to one sentence of a tale of distress, that vagabond was made for the next two days. it was so notorious in the house, that the masters and headboys took pains to cut these marauders off at angles, and to get out of windows, and turn them out of the courtyard, before they could make the doctor aware of their presence which was sometimes happily effected within a few yards of him, without his knowing anything of the matter, as he jogged to and fro. outside his own domain, and unprotected, he was a very sheep for the shearers. he would have taken his gaiters off his legs, to give away. in fact, there was a story current among us i have no idea, and never had, on what authority, but i have believed it for so many years that i feel quite certain it is true, that on a frosty day, one wintertime, he actually did bestow his gaiters on a beggarwoman, who occasioned some scandal in the neighbourhood by exhibiting a fine infant from door to door, wrapped in those garments, which were universally recognized, being as well known in the vicinity as the cathedral. the legend added that the only person who did not identify them was the doctor himself, who, when they were shortly afterwards displayed at the door of a little secondhand shop of no very good repute, where such things were taken in exchange for gin, was more than once observed to handle them approvingly, as if admiring some curious novelty in the pattern, and considering them an improvement on his own.

it was very pleasant to see the doctor with his pretty young wife.

he had a fatherly, benignant way of showing his fondness for her, which seemed in itself to express a good man. i often saw them walking in the garden where the peaches were, and i sometimes had a nearer observation of them in the study or the parlour. she appeared to me to take great care of the doctor, and to like him very much, though i never thought her vitally interested in the dictionary some cumbrous fragments of which work the doctor always carried in his pockets, and in the lining of his hat, and generally seemed to be expounding to her as they walked about.

i saw a good deal of mrs. strong, both because she had taken a liking for me on the morning of my introduction to the doctor, and was always afterwards kind to me, and interested in me and because she was very fond of agnes, and was often backwards and forwards at our house. there was a curious constraint between her and mr.

wickfield, i thought of whom she seemed to be afraid, that never wore off. when she came there of an evening, she always shrunk from accepting his escort home, and ran away with me instead. and sometimes, as we were running gaily across the cathedral yard together, expecting to meet nobody, we would meet mr. jack maldon, who was always surprised to see us.

mrs. strongs mama was a lady i took great delight in. her name was mrs. markleham but our boys used to call her the old soldier, on account of her generalship, and the skill with which she marshalled great forces of relations against the doctor. she was a little, sharpeyed woman, who used to wear, when she was dressed, one unchangeable cap, ornamented with some artificial flowers, and two artificial butterflies supposed to be hovering above the flowers. there was a superstition among us that this cap had come from france, and could only originate in the workmanship of that ingenious nation but all i certainly know about it, is, that it always made its appearance of an evening, wheresoever mrs.

markleham made her appearance that it was carried about to friendly meetings in a hindoo basket that the butterflies had the gift of trembling constantly and that they improved the shining hours at doctor strongs expense, like busy bees.

i observed the old soldier  not to adopt the name disrespectfully  to pretty good advantage, on a night which is made memorable to me by something else i shall relate. it was the night of a little party at the doctors, which was given on the occasion of mr. jack maldons departure for india, whither he was going as a cadet, or something of that kind mr. wickfield having at length arranged the business. it happened to be the doctors birthday, too. we had had a holiday, had made presents to him in the morning, had made a speech to him through the headboy, and had cheered him until we were hoarse, and until he had shed tears. and now, in the evening, mr. wickfield, agnes, and i, went to have tea with him in his private capacity.

mr. jack maldon was there, before us. mrs. strong, dressed in white, with cherrycoloured ribbons, was playing the piano, when we went in and he was leaning over her to turn the leaves. the clear red and white of her complexion was not so blooming and flowerlike as usual, i thought, when she turned round but she looked very pretty, wonderfully pretty.

i have forgotten, doctor, said mrs. strongs mama, when we were seated, to pay you the compliments of the day  though they are, as you may suppose, very far from being mere compliments in my case. allow me to wish you many happy returns.

i thank you, maam, replied the doctor.

many, many, many, happy returns, said the old soldier. not only for your own sake, but for annies, and john maldons, and many other peoples. it seems but yesterday to me, john, when you were a little creature, a head shorter than master copperfield, making baby love to annie behind the gooseberry bushes in the backgarden.

my dear mama, said mrs. strong, never mind that now.

annie, dont be absurd, returned her mother. if you are to blush to hear of such things now you are an old married woman, when are you not to blush to hear of them

old exclaimed mr. jack maldon. annie come

yes, john, returned the soldier. virtually, an old married woman. although not old by years  for when did you ever hear me say, or who has ever heard me say, that a girl of twenty was old by years  your cousin is the wife of the doctor, and, as such, what i have described her. it is well for you, john, that your cousin is the wife of the doctor. you have found in him an influential and kind friend, who will be kinder yet, i venture to predict, if you deserve it. i have no false pride. i never hesitate to admit, frankly, that there are some members of our family who want a friend. you were one yourself, before your cousins influence raised up one for you.

the doctor, in the goodness of his heart, waved his hand as if to make light of it, and save mr. jack maldon from any further reminder. but mrs. markleham changed her chair for one next the doctors, and putting her fan on his coatsleeve, said no, really, my dear doctor, you must excuse me if i appear to dwell on this rather, because i feel so very strongly. i call it quite my monomania, it is such a subject of mine. you are a blessing to us. you really are a boon, you know.

nonsense, nonsense, said the doctor.

no, no, i beg your pardon, retorted the old soldier. with nobody present, but our dear and confidential friend mr. wickfield, i cannot consent to be put down. i shall begin to assert the privileges of a motherinlaw, if you go on like that, and scold you. i am perfectly honest and outspoken. what i am saying, is what i said when you first overpowered me with surprise  you remember how surprised i was  by proposing for annie. not that there was anything so very much out of the way, in the mere fact of the proposal  it would be ridiculous to say that  but because, you having known her poor father, and having known her from a baby six months old, i hadnt thought of you in such a light at all, or indeed as a marrying man in any way,  simply that, you know.

aye, aye, returned the doctor, goodhumouredly. never mind.

but i do mind, said the old soldier, laying her fan upon his lips. i mind very much. i recall these things that i may be contradicted if i am wrong. well then i spoke to annie, and i told her what had happened. i said, my dear, heres doctor strong has positively been and made you the subject of a handsome declaration and an offer. did i press it in the least no. i said, now, annie, tell me the truth this moment is your heart free mama, she said crying, i am extremely young  which was perfectly true  and i hardly know if i have a heart at all.

then, my dear, i said, you may rely upon it, its free. at all events, my love, said i, doctor strong is in an agitated state of mind, and must be answered. he cannot be kept in his present state of suspense. mama, said annie, still crying, would he be unhappy without me if he would, i honour and respect him so much, that i think i will have him. so it was settled. and then, and not till then, i said to annie, annie, doctor strong will not only be your husband, but he will represent your late father he will represent the head of our family, he will represent the wisdom and station, and i may say the means, of our family and will be, in short, a boon to it. i used the word at the time, and i have used it again, today. if i have any merit it is consistency.

the daughter had sat quite silent and still during this speech, with her eyes fixed on the ground her cousin standing near her, and looking on the ground too. she now said very softly, in a trembling voice mama, i hope you have finished

no, my dear annie, returned the old soldier, i have not quite finished. since you ask me, my love, i reply that i have not. i complain that you really are a little unnatural towards your own family and, as it is of no use complaining to you. i mean to complain to your husband. now, my dear doctor, do look at that silly wife of yours.

as the doctor turned his kind face, with its smile of simplicity and gentleness, towards her, she drooped her head more. i noticed that mr. wickfield looked at her steadily.

when i happened to say to that naughty thing, the other day, pursued her mother, shaking her head and her fan at her, playfully, that there was a family circumstance she might mention to you  indeed, i think, was bound to mention  she said, that to mention it was to ask a favour and that, as you were too generous, and as for her to ask was always to have, she wouldnt.

annie, my dear, said the doctor. that was wrong. it robbed me of a pleasure.

almost the very words i said to her exclaimed her mother. now really, another time, when i know what she would tell you but for this reason, and wont, i have a great mind, my dear doctor, to tell you myself.

i shall be glad if you will, returned the doctor.

shall i

certainly.

well, then, i will said the old soldier. thats a bargain.

and having, i suppose, carried her point, she tapped the doctors hand several times with her fan which she kissed first, and returned triumphantly to her former station.

some more company coming in, among whom were the two masters and adams, the talk became general and it naturally turned on mr. jack maldon, and his voyage, and the country he was going to, and his various plans and prospects. he was to leave that night, after supper, in a postchaise, for gravesend where the ship, in which he was to make the voyage, lay and was to be gone  unless he came home on leave, or for his health  i dont know how many years. i recollect it was settled by general consent that india was quite a misrepresented country, and had nothing objectionable in it, but a tiger or two, and a little heat in the warm part of the day. for my own part, i looked on mr. jack maldon as a modern sindbad, and pictured him the bosom friend of all the rajahs in the east, sitting under canopies, smoking curly golden pipes  a mile long, if they could be straightened out.

mrs. strong was a very pretty singer as i knew, who often heard her singing by herself. but, whether she was afraid of singing before people, or was out of voice that evening, it was certain that she couldnt sing at all. she tried a duet, once, with her cousin maldon, but could not so much as begin and afterwards, when she tried to sing by herself, although she began sweetly, her voice died away on a sudden, and left her quite distressed, with her head hanging down over the keys. the good doctor said she was nervous, and, to relieve her, proposed a round game at cards of which he knew as much as of the art of playing the trombone. but i remarked that the old soldier took him into custody directly, for her partner and instructed him, as the first preliminary of initiation, to give her all the silver he had in his pocket.

we had a merry game, not made the less merry by the doctors mistakes, of which he committed an innumerable quantity, in spite of the watchfulness of the butterflies, and to their great aggravation. mrs. strong had declined to play, on the ground of not feeling very well and her cousin maldon had excused himself because he had some packing to do. when he had done it, however, he returned, and they sat together, talking, on the sofa. from time to time she came and looked over the doctors hand, and told him what to play. she was very pale, as she bent over him, and i thought her finger trembled as she pointed out the cards but the doctor was quite happy in her attention, and took no notice of this, if it were so.

at supper, we were hardly so gay. everyone appeared to feel that a parting of that sort was an awkward thing, and that the nearer it approached, the more awkward it was. mr. jack maldon tried to be very talkative, but was not at his ease, and made matters worse.

and they were not improved, as it appeared to me, by the old soldier who continually recalled passages of mr. jack maldons youth.

the doctor, however, who felt, i am sure, that he was making everybody happy, was well pleased, and had no suspicion but that we were all at the utmost height of enjoyment.

annie, my dear, said he, looking at his watch, and filling his glass, it is past your cousin jacks time, and we must not detain him, since time and tide  both concerned in this case  wait for no man. mr. jack maldon, you have a long voyage, and a strange country, before you but many men have had both, and many men will have both, to the end of time. the winds you are going to tempt, have wafted thousands upon thousands to fortune, and brought thousands upon thousands happily back.

its an affecting thing, said mrs. markleham  however its viewed, its affecting, to see a fine young man one has known from an infant, going away to the other end of the world, leaving all he knows behind, and not knowing whats before him. a young man really well deserves constant support and patronage, looking at the doctor, who makes such sacrifices.

time will go fast with you, mr. jack maldon, pursued the doctor, and fast with all of us. some of us can hardly expect, perhaps, in the natural course of things, to greet you on your return. the next best thing is to hope to do it, and thats my case. i shall not weary you with good advice. you have long had a good model before you, in your cousin annie. imitate her virtues as nearly as you can.

mrs. markleham fanned herself, and shook her head.

farewell, mr. jack, said the doctor, standing up on which we all stood up. a prosperous voyage out, a thriving career abroad, and a happy return home

we all drank the toast, and all shook hands with mr. jack maldon after which he hastily took leave of the ladies who were there, and hurried to the door, where he was received, as he got into the chaise, with a tremendous broadside of cheers discharged by our boys, who had assembled on the lawn for the purpose. running in among them to swell the ranks, i was very near the chaise when it rolled away and i had a lively impression made upon me, in the midst of the noise and dust, of having seen mr. jack maldon rattle past with an agitated face, and something cherrycoloured in his hand.

after another broadside for the doctor, and another for the doctors wife, the boys dispersed, and i went back into the house, where i found the guests all standing in a group about the doctor, discussing how mr. jack maldon had gone away, and how he had borne it, and how he had felt it, and all the rest of it. in the midst of these remarks, mrs. markleham cried wheres annie

no annie was there and when they called to her, no annie replied.

but all pressing out of the room, in a crowd, to see what was the matter, we found her lying on the hall floor. there was great alarm at first, until it was found that she was in a swoon, and that the swoon was yielding to the usual means of recovery when the doctor, who had lifted her head upon his knee, put her curls aside with his hand, and said, looking around poor annie shes so faithful and tenderhearted its the parting from her old playfellow and friend  her favourite cousin  that has done this. ah its a pity i am very sorry

when she opened her eyes, and saw where she was, and that we were all standing about her, she arose with assistance turning her head, as she did so, to lay it on the doctors shoulder  or to hide it, i dont know which. we went into the drawingroom, to leave her with the doctor and her mother but she said, it seemed, that she was better than she had been since morning, and that she would rather be brought among us so they brought her in, looking very white and weak, i thought, and sat her on a sofa.

annie, my dear, said her mother, doing something to her dress.

see here you have lost a bow. will anybody be so good as find a ribbon a cherrycoloured ribbon

it was the one she had worn at her bosom. we all looked for it i myself looked everywhere, i am certain  but nobody could find it.

do you recollect where you had it last, annie said her mother.

i wondered how i could have thought she looked white, or anything but burning red, when she answered that she had had it safe, a little while ago, she thought, but it was not worth looking for.

nevertheless, it was looked for again, and still not found. she entreated that there might be no more searching but it was still sought for, in a desultory way, until she was quite well, and the company took their departure.

we walked very slowly home, mr. wickfield, agnes, and i  agnes and i admiring the moonlight, and mr. wickfield scarcely raising his eyes from the ground. when we, at last, reached our own door, agnes discovered that she had left her little reticule behind.

delighted to be of any service to her, i ran back to fetch it.

i went into the supperroom where it had been left, which was deserted and dark. but a door of communication between that and the doctors study, where there was a light, being open, i passed on there, to say what i wanted, and to get a candle.

the doctor was sitting in his easychair by the fireside, and his young wife was on a stool at his feet. the doctor, with a complacent smile, was reading aloud some manuscript explanation or statement of a theory out of that interminable dictionary, and she was looking up at him. but with such a face as i never saw. it was so beautiful in its form, it was so ashy pale, it was so fixed in its abstraction, it was so full of a wild, sleepwalking, dreamy horror of i dont know what. the eyes were wide open, and her brown hair fell in two rich clusters on her shoulders, and on her white dress, disordered by the want of the lost ribbon. distinctly as i recollect her look, i cannot say of what it was expressive, i cannot even say of what it is expressive to me now, rising again before my older judgement. penitence, humiliation, shame, pride, love, and trustfulness  i see them all and in them all, i see that horror of i dont know what.

my entrance, and my saying what i wanted, roused her. it disturbed the doctor too, for when i went back to replace the candle i had taken from the table, he was patting her head, in his fatherly way, and saying he was a merciless drone to let her tempt him into reading on and he would have her go to bed.

but she asked him, in a rapid, urgent manner, to let her stay  to let her feel assured i heard her murmur some broken words to this effect that she was in his confidence that night. and, as she turned again towards him, after glancing at me as i left the room and went out at the door, i saw her cross her hands upon his knee, and look up at him with the same face, something quieted, as he resumed his reading.

it made a great impression on me, and i remembered it a long time afterwards as i shall have occasion to narrate when the time comes.



chapter 

somebody turns up

it has not occurred to me to mention peggotty since i ran away but, of course, i wrote her a letter almost as soon as i was housed at dover, and another, and a longer letter, containing all particulars fully related, when my aunt took me formally under her protection. on my being settled at doctor strongs i wrote to her again, detailing my happy condition and prospects. i never could have derived anything like the pleasure from spending the money mr.

dick had given me, that i felt in sending a gold halfguinea to peggotty, per post, enclosed in this last letter, to discharge the sum i had borrowed of her in which epistle, not before, i mentioned about the young man with the donkeycart.

to these communications peggotty replied as promptly, if not as concisely, as a merchants clerk. her utmost powers of expression which were certainly not great in ink were exhausted in the attempt to write what she felt on the subject of my journey. four sides of incoherent and interjectional beginnings of sentences, that had no end, except blots, were inadequate to afford her any relief. but the blots were more expressive to me than the best composition for they showed me that peggotty had been crying all over the paper, and what could i have desired more

i made out, without much difficulty, that she could not take quite kindly to my aunt yet. the notice was too short after so long a prepossession the other way. we never knew a person, she wrote but to think that miss betsey should seem to be so different from what she had been thought to be, was a moral  that was her word.

she was evidently still afraid of miss betsey, for she sent her grateful duty to her but timidly and she was evidently afraid of me, too, and entertained the probability of my running away again soon if i might judge from the repeated hints she threw out, that the coachfare to yarmouth was always to be had of her for the asking.

she gave me one piece of intelligence which affected me very much, namely, that there had been a sale of the furniture at our old home, and that mr. and miss murdstone were gone away, and the house was shut up, to be let or sold. god knows i had no part in it while they remained there, but it pained me to think of the dear old place as altogether abandoned of the weeds growing tall in the garden, and the fallen leaves lying thick and wet upon the paths.

i imagined how the winds of winter would howl round it, how the cold rain would beat upon the windowglass, how the moon would make ghosts on the walls of the empty rooms, watching their solitude all night. i thought afresh of the grave in the churchyard, underneath the tree and it seemed as if the house were dead too, now, and all connected with my father and mother were faded away.

there was no other news in peggottys letters. mr. barkis was an excellent husband, she said, though still a little near but we all had our faults, and she had plenty though i am sure i dont know what they were and he sent his duty, and my little bedroom was always ready for me. mr. peggotty was well, and ham was well, and mrs.. gummidge was but poorly, and little emly wouldnt send her love, but said that peggotty might send it, if she liked.

all this intelligence i dutifully imparted to my aunt, only reserving to myself the mention of little emly, to whom i instinctively felt that she would not very tenderly incline. while i was yet new at doctor strongs, she made several excursions over to canterbury to see me, and always at unseasonable hours with the view, i suppose, of taking me by surprise. but, finding me well employed, and bearing a good character, and hearing on all hands that i rose fast in the school, she soon discontinued these visits.

i saw her on a saturday, every third or fourth week, when i went over to dover for a treat and i saw mr. dick every alternate wednesday, when he arrived by stagecoach at noon, to stay until next morning.

on these occasions mr. dick never travelled without a leathern writingdesk, containing a supply of stationery and the memorial in relation to which document he had a notion that time was beginning to press now, and that it really must be got out of hand.

mr. dick was very partial to gingerbread. to render his visits the more agreeable, my aunt had instructed me to open a credit for him at a cake shop, which was hampered with the stipulation that he should not be served with more than one shillingsworth in the course of any one day. this, and the reference of all his little bills at the county inn where he slept, to my aunt, before they were paid, induced me to suspect that he was only allowed to rattle his money, and not to spend it. i found on further investigation that this was so, or at least there was an agreement between him and my aunt that he should account to her for all his disbursements. as he had no idea of deceiving her, and always desired to please her, he was thus made chary of launching into expense. on this point, as well as on all other possible points, mr. dick was convinced that my aunt was the wisest and most wonderful of women as he repeatedly told me with infinite secrecy, and always in a whisper.

trotwood, said mr. dick, with an air of mystery, after imparting this confidence to me, one wednesday whos the man that hides near our house and frightens her

frightens my aunt, sir

mr. dick nodded. i thought nothing would have frightened her, he said, for shes  here he whispered softly, dont mention it  the wisest and most wonderful of women. having said which, he drew back, to observe the effect which this description of her made upon me.

the first time he came, said mr. dick, was let me see sixteen hundred and fortynine was the date of king charless execution.

i think you said sixteen hundred and fortynine

yes, sir.

i dont know how it can be, said mr. dick, sorely puzzled and shaking his head. i dont think i am as old as that.

was it in that year that the man appeared, sir i asked.

why, really said mr. dick, i dont see how it can have been in that year, trotwood. did you get that date out of history

yes, sir.

i suppose history never lies, does it said mr. dick, with a gleam of hope.

oh dear, no, sir i replied, most decisively. i was ingenuous and young, and i thought so.

i cant make it out, said mr. dick, shaking his head. theres something wrong, somewhere. however, it was very soon after the mistake was made of putting some of the trouble out of king charless head into my head, that the man first came. i was walking out with miss trotwood after tea, just at dark, and there he was, close to our house.

walking about i inquired.

walking about repeated mr. dick. let me see, i must recollect a bit. nno, no he was not walking about.

i asked, as the shortest way to get at it, what he was doing.

well, he wasnt there at all, said mr. dick, until he came up behind her, and whispered. then she turned round and fainted, and i stood still and looked at him, and he walked away but that he should have been hiding ever since in the ground or somewhere, is the most extraordinary thing

has he been hiding ever since i asked.

to be sure he has, retorted mr. dick, nodding his head gravely.

never came out, till last night we were walking last night, and he came up behind her again, and i knew him again.

and did he frighten my aunt again

all of a shiver, said mr. dick, counterfeiting that affection and making his teeth chatter. held by the palings. cried. but, trotwood, come here, getting me close to him, that he might whisper very softly why did she give him money, boy, in the moonlight

he was a beggar, perhaps.

mr. dick shook his head, as utterly renouncing the suggestion and having replied a great many times, and with great confidence, no beggar, no beggar, no beggar, sir went on to say, that from his window he had afterwards, and late at night, seen my aunt give this person money outside the garden rails in the moonlight, who then slunk away  into the ground again, as he thought probable  and was seen no more while my aunt came hurriedly and secretly back into the house, and had, even that morning, been quite different from her usual self which preyed on mr. dicks mind.

i had not the least belief, in the outset of this story, that the unknown was anything but a delusion of mr. dicks, and one of the line of that illfated prince who occasioned him so much difficulty but after some reflection i began to entertain the question whether an attempt, or threat of an attempt, might have been twice made to take poor mr. dick himself from under my aunts protection, and whether my aunt, the strength of whose kind feeling towards him i knew from herself, might have been induced to pay a price for his peace and quiet. as i was already much attached to mr. dick, and very solicitous for his welfare, my fears favoured this supposition and for a long time his wednesday hardly ever came round, without my entertaining a misgiving that he would not be on the coachbox as usual. there he always appeared, however, greyheaded, laughing, and happy and he never had anything more to tell of the man who could frighten my aunt.

these wednesdays were the happiest days of mr. dicks life they were far from being the least happy of mine. he soon became known to every boy in the school and though he never took an active part in any game but kiteflying, was as deeply interested in all our sports as anyone among us. how often have i seen him, intent upon a match at marbles or pegtop, looking on with a face of unutterable interest, and hardly breathing at the critical times how often, at hare and hounds, have i seen him mounted on a little knoll, cheering the whole field on to action, and waving his hat above his grey head, oblivious of king charles the martyrs head, and all belonging to it how many a summer hour have i known to be but blissful minutes to him in the cricketfield how many winter days have i seen him, standing bluenosed, in the snow and east wind, looking at the boys going down the long slide, and clapping his worsted gloves in rapture

he was an universal favourite, and his ingenuity in little things was transcendent. he could cut oranges into such devices as none of us had an idea of. he could make a boat out of anything, from a skewer upwards. he could turn crampbones into chessmen fashion roman chariots from old court cards make spoked wheels out of cotton reels, and birdcages of old wire. but he was greatest of all, perhaps, in the articles of string and straw with which we were all persuaded he could do anything that could be done by hands.

mr. dicks renown was not long confined to us. after a few wednesdays, doctor strong himself made some inquiries of me about him, and i told him all my aunt had told me which interested the doctor so much that he requested, on the occasion of his next visit, to be presented to him. this ceremony i performed and the doctor begging mr. dick, whensoever he should not find me at the coach office, to come on there, and rest himself until our mornings work was over, it soon passed into a custom for mr. dick to come on as a matter of course, and, if we were a little late, as often happened on a wednesday, to walk about the courtyard, waiting for me. here he made the acquaintance of the doctors beautiful young wife paler than formerly, all this time more rarely seen by me or anyone, i think and not so gay, but not less beautiful, and so became more and more familiar by degrees, until, at last, he would come into the school and wait. he always sat in a particular corner, on a particular stool, which was called dick, after him here he would sit, with his grey head bent forward, attentively listening to whatever might be going on, with a profound veneration for the learning he had never been able to acquire.

this veneration mr. dick extended to the doctor, whom he thought the most subtle and accomplished philosopher of any age. it was long before mr. dick ever spoke to him otherwise than bareheaded and even when he and the doctor had struck up quite a friendship, and would walk together by the hour, on that side of the courtyard which was known among us as the doctors walk, mr. dick would pull off his hat at intervals to show his respect for wisdom and knowledge. how it ever came about that the doctor began to read out scraps of the famous dictionary, in these walks, i never knew perhaps he felt it all the same, at first, as reading to himself.

however, it passed into a custom too and mr. dick, listening with a face shining with pride and pleasure, in his heart of hearts believed the dictionary to be the most delightful book in the world.

as i think of them going up and down before those schoolroom windows  the doctor reading with his complacent smile, an occasional flourish of the manuscript, or grave motion of his head and mr. dick listening, enchained by interest, with his poor wits calmly wandering god knows where, upon the wings of hard words  i think of it as one of the pleasantest things, in a quiet way, that i have ever seen. i feel as if they might go walking to and fro for ever, and the world might somehow be the better for it  as if a thousand things it makes a noise about, were not one half so good for it, or me.

agnes was one of mr. dicks friends, very soon and in often coming to the house, he made acquaintance with uriah. the friendship between himself and me increased continually, and it was maintained on this odd footing that, while mr. dick came professedly to look after me as my guardian, he always consulted me in any little matter of doubt that arose, and invariably guided himself by my advice not only having a high respect for my native sagacity, but considering that i inherited a good deal from my aunt.

one thursday morning, when i was about to walk with mr. dick from the hotel to the coach office before going back to school for we had an hours school before breakfast, i met uriah in the street, who reminded me of the promise i had made to take tea with himself and his mother adding, with a writhe, but i didnt expect you to keep it, master copperfield, were so very umble.

i really had not yet been able to make up my mind whether i liked uriah or detested him and i was very doubtful about it still, as i stood looking him in the face in the street. but i felt it quite an affront to be supposed proud, and said i only wanted to be asked.

oh, if thats all, master copperfield, said uriah, and it really isnt our umbleness that prevents you, will you come this evening but if it is our umbleness, i hope you wont mind owning to it, master copperfield for we are well aware of our condition.

i said i would mention it to mr. wickfield, and if he approved, as i had no doubt he would, i would come with pleasure. so, at six oclock that evening, which was one of the early office evenings, i announced myself as ready, to uriah.

mother will be proud, indeed, he said, as we walked away together. or she would be proud, if it wasnt sinful, master copperfield.

yet you didnt mind supposing i was proud this morning, i returned.

oh dear, no, master copperfield returned uriah. oh, believe me, no such a thought never came into my head i shouldnt have deemed it at all proud if you had thought us too umble for you.

because we are so very umble.

have you been studying much law lately i asked, to change the subject.

oh, master copperfield, he said, with an air of selfdenial, my reading is hardly to be called study. i have passed an hour or two in the evening, sometimes, with mr. tidd.

rather hard, i suppose said i.

he is hard to me sometimes, returned uriah. but i dont know what he might be to a gifted person.

after beating a little tune on his chin as he walked on, with the two forefingers of his skeleton right hand, he added there are expressions, you see, master copperfield  latin words and terms  in mr. tidd, that are trying to a reader of my umble attainments.

would you like to be taught latin i said briskly. i will teach it you with pleasure, as i learn it.

oh, thank you, master copperfield, he answered, shaking his head.

i am sure its very kind of you to make the offer, but i am much too umble to accept it.

what nonsense, uriah

oh, indeed you must excuse me, master copperfield i am greatly obliged, and i should like it of all things, i assure you but i am far too umble. there are people enough to tread upon me in my lowly state, without my doing outrage to their feelings by possessing learning. learning aint for me. a person like myself had better not aspire. if he is to get on in life, he must get on umbly, master copperfield

i never saw his mouth so wide, or the creases in his cheeks so deep, as when he delivered himself of these sentiments shaking his head all the time, and writhing modestly.

i think you are wrong, uriah, i said. i dare say there are several things that i could teach you, if you would like to learn them.

oh, i dont doubt that, master copperfield, he answered not in the least. but not being umble yourself, you dont judge well, perhaps, for them that are. i wont provoke my betters with knowledge, thank you. im much too umble. here is my umble dwelling, master copperfield

we entered a low, oldfashioned room, walked straight into from the street, and found there mrs. heep, who was the dead image of uriah, only short. she received me with the utmost humility, and apologized to me for giving her son a kiss, observing that, lowly as they were, they had their natural affections, which they hoped would give no offence to anyone. it was a perfectly decent room, half parlour and half kitchen, but not at all a snug room. the teathings were set upon the table, and the kettle was boiling on the hob. there was a chest of drawers with an escritoire top, for uriah to read or write at of an evening there was uriahs blue bag lying down and vomiting papers there was a company of uriahs books commanded by mr. tidd there was a corner cupboard and there were the usual articles of furniture. i dont remember that any individual object had a bare, pinched, spare look but i do remember that the whole place had.

it was perhaps a part of mrs. heeps humility, that she still wore weeds. notwithstanding the lapse of time that had occurred since mr. heeps decease, she still wore weeds. i think there was some compromise in the cap but otherwise she was as weedy as in the early days of her mourning.

this is a day to be remembered, my uriah, i am sure, said mrs.

heep, making the tea, when master copperfield pays us a visit.

i said youd think so, mother, said uriah.

if i could have wished father to remain among us for any reason, said mrs. heep, it would have been, that he might have known his company this afternoon.

i felt embarrassed by these compliments but i was sensible, too, of being entertained as an honoured guest, and i thought mrs. heep an agreeable woman.

my uriah, said mrs. heep, has looked forward to this, sir, a long while. he had his fears that our umbleness stood in the way, and i joined in them myself. umble we are, umble we have been, umble we shall ever be, said mrs. heep.

i am sure you have no occasion to be so, maam, i said, unless you like.

thank you, sir, retorted mrs. heep. we know our station and are thankful in it.

i found that mrs. heep gradually got nearer to me, and that uriah gradually got opposite to me, and that they respectfully plied me with the choicest of the eatables on the table. there was nothing particularly choice there, to be sure but i took the will for the deed, and felt that they were very attentive. presently they began to talk about aunts, and then i told them about mine and about fathers and mothers, and then i told them about mine and then mrs.

heep began to talk about fathersinlaw, and then i began to tell her about mine  but stopped, because my aunt had advised me to observe a silence on that subject. a tender young cork, however, would have had no more chance against a pair of corkscrews, or a tender young tooth against a pair of dentists, or a little shuttlecock against two battledores, than i had against uriah and mrs. heep. they did just what they liked with me and wormed things out of me that i had no desire to tell, with a certainty i blush to think of, the more especially, as in my juvenile frankness, i took some credit to myself for being so confidential and felt that i was quite the patron of my two respectful entertainers.

they were very fond of one another that was certain. i take it, that had its effect upon me, as a touch of nature but the skill with which the one followed up whatever the other said, was a touch of art which i was still less proof against. when there was nothing more to be got out of me about myself for on the murdstone and grinby life, and on my journey, i was dumb, they began about mr. wickfield and agnes. uriah threw the ball to mrs. heep, mrs.

heep caught it and threw it back to uriah, uriah kept it up a little while, then sent it back to mrs. heep, and so they went on tossing it about until i had no idea who had got it, and was quite bewildered. the ball itself was always changing too. now it was mr. wickfield, now agnes, now the excellence of mr. wickfield, now my admiration of agnes now the extent of mr. wickfields business and resources, now our domestic life after dinner now, the wine that mr. wickfield took, the reason why he took it, and the pity that it was he took so much now one thing, now another, then everything at once and all the time, without appearing to speak very often, or to do anything but sometimes encourage them a little, for fear they should be overcome by their humility and the honour of my company, i found myself perpetually letting out something or other that i had no business to let out and seeing the effect of it in the twinkling of uriahs dinted nostrils.

i had begun to be a little uncomfortable, and to wish myself well out of the visit, when a figure coming down the street passed the door  it stood open to air the room, which was warm, the weather being close for the time of year  came back again, looked in, and walked in, exclaiming loudly, copperfield is it possible

it was mr. micawber it was mr. micawber, with his eyeglass, and his walkingstick, and his shirtcollar, and his genteel air, and the condescending roll in his voice, all complete my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber, putting out his hand, this is indeed a meeting which is calculated to impress the mind with a sense of the instability and uncertainty of all human  in short, it is a most extraordinary meeting. walking along the street, reflecting upon the probability of something turning up of which i am at present rather sanguine, i find a young but valued friend turn up, who is connected with the most eventful period of my life i may say, with the turningpoint of my existence.

copperfield, my dear fellow, how do you do

i cannot say  i really cannot say  that i was glad to see mr.

micawber there but i was glad to see him too, and shook hands with him, heartily, inquiring how mrs. micawber was.

thank you, said mr. micawber, waving his hand as of old, and settling his chin in his shirtcollar. she is tolerably convalescent. the twins no longer derive their sustenance from natures founts  in short, said mr. micawber, in one of his bursts of confidence, they are weaned  and mrs. micawber is, at present, my travelling companion. she will be rejoiced, copperfield, to renew her acquaintance with one who has proved himself in all respects a worthy minister at the sacred altar of friendship.

i said i should be delighted to see her.

you are very good, said mr. micawber.

mr. micawber then smiled, settled his chin again, and looked about him.

i have discovered my friend copperfield, said mr. micawber genteelly, and without addressing himself particularly to anyone, not in solitude, but partaking of a social meal in company with a widow lady, and one who is apparently her offspring  in short, said mr. micawber, in another of his bursts of confidence, her son. i shall esteem it an honour to be presented.

i could do no less, under these circumstances, than make mr.

micawber known to uriah heep and his mother which i accordingly did. as they abased themselves before him, mr. micawber took a seat, and waved his hand in his most courtly manner.

any friend of my friend copperfields, said mr. micawber, has a personal claim upon myself.

we are too umble, sir, said mrs. heep, my son and me, to be the friends of master copperfield. he has been so good as take his tea with us, and we are thankful to him for his company, also to you, sir, for your notice.

maam, returned mr. micawber, with a bow, you are very obliging and what are you doing, copperfield still in the wine trade

i was excessively anxious to get mr. micawber away and replied, with my hat in my hand, and a very red face, i have no doubt, that i was a pupil at doctor strongs.

a pupil said mr. micawber, raising his eyebrows. i am extremely happy to hear it. although a mind like my friend copperfields  to uriah and mrs. heep  does not require that cultivation which, without his knowledge of men and things, it would require, still it is a rich soil teeming with latent vegetation  in short, said mr. micawber, smiling, in another burst of confidence, it is an intellect capable of getting up the classics to any extent.

uriah, with his long hands slowly twining over one another, made a ghastly writhe from the waist upwards, to express his concurrence in this estimation of me.

shall we go and see mrs. micawber, sir i said, to get mr.

micawber away.

if you will do her that favour, copperfield, replied mr.

micawber, rising. i have no scruple in saying, in the presence of our friends here, that i am a man who has, for some years, contended against the pressure of pecuniary difficulties. i knew he was certain to say something of this kind he always would be so boastful about his difficulties. sometimes i have risen superior to my difficulties. sometimes my difficulties have  in short, have floored me. there have been times when i have administered a succession of facers to them there have been times when they have been too many for me, and i have given in, and said to mrs.

micawber, in the words of cato, plato, thou reasonest well. its all up now. i can show fight no more. but at no time of my life, said mr. micawber, have i enjoyed a higher degree of satisfaction than in pouring my griefs if i may describe difficulties, chiefly arising out of warrants of attorney and promissory notes at two and four months, by that word into the bosom of my friend copperfield.

mr. micawber closed this handsome tribute by saying, mr. heep

good evening. mrs. heep your servant, and then walking out with me in his most fashionable manner, making a good deal of noise on the pavement with his shoes, and humming a tune as we went.

it was a little inn where mr. micawber put up, and he occupied a little room in it, partitioned off from the commercial room, and strongly flavoured with tobaccosmoke. i think it was over the kitchen, because a warm greasy smell appeared to come up through the chinks in the floor, and there was a flabby perspiration on the walls. i know it was near the bar, on account of the smell of spirits and jingling of glasses. here, recumbent on a small sofa, underneath a picture of a racehorse, with her head close to the fire, and her feet pushing the mustard off the dumbwaiter at the other end of the room, was mrs. micawber, to whom mr. micawber entered first, saying, my dear, allow me to introduce to you a pupil of doctor strongs.

i noticed, by the by, that although mr. micawber was just as much confused as ever about my age and standing, he always remembered, as a genteel thing, that i was a pupil of doctor strongs.

mrs. micawber was amazed, but very glad to see me. i was very glad to see her too, and, after an affectionate greeting on both sides, sat down on the small sofa near her.

my dear, said mr. micawber, if you will mention to copperfield what our present position is, which i have no doubt he will like to know, i will go and look at the paper the while, and see whether anything turns up among the advertisements.

i thought you were at plymouth, maam, i said to mrs. micawber, as he went out.

my dear master copperfield, she replied, we went to plymouth.

to be on the spot, i hinted.

just so, said mrs. micawber. to be on the spot. but, the truth is, talent is not wanted in the custom house. the local influence of my family was quite unavailing to obtain any employment in that department, for a man of mr. micawbers abilities. they would rather not have a man of mr. micawbers abilities. he would only show the deficiency of the others. apart from which, said mrs.

micawber, i will not disguise from you, my dear master copperfield, that when that branch of my family which is settled in plymouth, became aware that mr. micawber was accompanied by myself, and by little wilkins and his sister, and by the twins, they did not receive him with that ardour which he might have expected, being so newly released from captivity. in fact, said mrs.

micawber, lowering her voice,  this is between ourselves  our reception was cool.

dear me i said.

yes, said mrs. micawber. it is truly painful to contemplate mankind in such an aspect, master copperfield, but our reception was, decidedly, cool. there is no doubt about it. in fact, that branch of my family which is settled in plymouth became quite personal to mr. micawber, before we had been there a week.

i said, and thought, that they ought to be ashamed of themselves.

still, so it was, continued mrs. micawber. under such circumstances, what could a man of mr. micawbers spirit do but one obvious course was left. to borrow, of that branch of my family, the money to return to london, and to return at any sacrifice.

then you all came back again, maam i said.

we all came back again, replied mrs. micawber. since then, i have consulted other branches of my family on the course which it is most expedient for mr. micawber to take  for i maintain that he must take some course, master copperfield, said mrs. micawber, argumentatively. it is clear that a family of six, not including a domestic, cannot live upon air.

certainly, maam, said i.

the opinion of those other branches of my family, pursued mrs.

micawber, is, that mr. micawber should immediately turn his attention to coals.

to what, maam

to coals, said mrs. micawber. to the coal trade. mr. micawber was induced to think, on inquiry, that there might be an opening for a man of his talent in the medway coal trade. then, as mr.

micawber very properly said, the first step to be taken clearly was, to come and see the medway. which we came and saw. i say we, master copperfield for i never will, said mrs. micawber with emotion, i never will desert mr. micawber.

i murmured my admiration and approbation.

we came, repeated mrs. micawber, and saw the medway. my opinion of the coal trade on that river is, that it may require talent, but that it certainly requires capital. talent, mr. micawber has capital, mr. micawber has not. we saw, i think, the greater part of the medway and that is my individual conclusion. being so near here, mr. micawber was of opinion that it would be rash not to come on, and see the cathedral. firstly, on account of its being so well worth seeing, and our never having seen it and secondly, on account of the great probability of something turning up in a cathedral town. we have been here, said mrs. micawber, three days. nothing has, as yet, turned up and it may not surprise you, my dear master copperfield, so much as it would a stranger, to know that we are at present waiting for a remittance from london, to discharge our pecuniary obligations at this hotel. until the arrival of that remittance, said mrs. micawber with much feeling, i am cut off from my home i allude to lodgings in pentonville, from my boy and girl, and from my twins.

i felt the utmost sympathy for mr. and mrs. micawber in this anxious extremity, and said as much to mr. micawber, who now returned adding that i only wished i had money enough, to lend them the amount they needed. mr. micawbers answer expressed the disturbance of his mind. he said, shaking hands with me, copperfield, you are a true friend but when the worst comes to the worst, no man is without a friend who is possessed of shaving materials. at this dreadful hint mrs. micawber threw her arms round mr. micawbers neck and entreated him to be calm. he wept but so far recovered, almost immediately, as to ring the bell for the waiter, and bespeak a hot kidney pudding and a plate of shrimps for breakfast in the morning.

when i took my leave of them, they both pressed me so much to come and dine before they went away, that i could not refuse. but, as i knew i could not come next day, when i should have a good deal to prepare in the evening, mr. micawber arranged that he would call at doctor strongs in the course of the morning having a presentiment that the remittance would arrive by that post, and propose the day after, if it would suit me better. accordingly i was called out of school next forenoon, and found mr. micawber in the parlour who had called to say that the dinner would take place as proposed.

when i asked him if the remittance had come, he pressed my hand and departed.

as i was looking out of window that same evening, it surprised me, and made me rather uneasy, to see mr. micawber and uriah heep walk past, arm in arm uriah humbly sensible of the honour that was done him, and mr. micawber taking a bland delight in extending his patronage to uriah. but i was still more surprised, when i went to the little hotel next day at the appointed dinnerhour, which was four oclock, to find, from what mr. micawber said, that he had gone home with uriah, and had drunk brandyandwater at mrs.

heeps.

and ill tell you what, my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber, your friend heep is a young fellow who might be attorneygeneral.

if i had known that young man, at the period when my difficulties came to a crisis, all i can say is, that i believe my creditors would have been a great deal better managed than they were.

i hardly understood how this could have been, seeing that mr.

micawber had paid them nothing at all as it was but i did not like to ask. neither did i like to say, that i hoped he had not been too communicative to uriah or to inquire if they had talked much about me. i was afraid of hurting mr. micawbers feelings, or, at all events, mrs. micawbers, she being very sensitive but i was uncomfortable about it, too, and often thought about it afterwards.

we had a beautiful little dinner. quite an elegant dish of fish the kidneyend of a loin of veal, roasted fried sausagemeat a partridge, and a pudding. there was wine, and there was strong ale and after dinner mrs. micawber made us a bowl of hot punch with her own hands.

mr. micawber was uncommonly convivial. i never saw him such good company. he made his face shine with the punch, so that it looked as if it had been varnished all over. he got cheerfully sentimental about the town, and proposed success to it observing that mrs. micawber and himself had been made extremely snug and comfortable there and that he never should forget the agreeable hours they had passed in canterbury. he proposed me afterwards and he, and mrs. micawber, and i, took a review of our past acquaintance, in the course of which we sold the property all over again. then i proposed mrs. micawber or, at least, said, modestly, if youll allow me, mrs. micawber, i shall now have the pleasure of drinking your health, maam. on which mr. micawber delivered an eulogium on mrs. micawbers character, and said she had ever been his guide, philosopher, and friend, and that he would recommend me, when i came to a marrying time of life, to marry such another woman, if such another woman could be found.

as the punch disappeared, mr. micawber became still more friendly and convivial. mrs. micawbers spirits becoming elevated, too, we sang auld lang syne. when we came to heres a hand, my trusty frere, we all joined hands round the table and when we declared we would take a right gude willie waught, and hadnt the least idea what it meant, we were really affected.

in a word, i never saw anybody so thoroughly jovial as mr. micawber was, down to the very last moment of the evening, when i took a hearty farewell of himself and his amiable wife. consequently, i was not prepared, at seven oclock next morning, to receive the following communication, dated half past nine in the evening a quarter of an hour after i had left him  my dear young friend, the die is cast  all is over. hiding the ravages of care with a sickly mask of mirth, i have not informed you, this evening, that there is no hope of the remittance under these circumstances, alike humiliating to endure, humiliating to contemplate, and humiliating to relate, i have discharged the pecuniary liability contracted at this establishment, by giving a note of hand, made payable fourteen days after date, at my residence, pentonville, london. when it becomes due, it will not be taken up. the result is destruction. the bolt is impending, and the tree must fall.

let the wretched man who now addresses you, my dear copperfield, be a beacon to you through life. he writes with that intention, and in that hope. if he could think himself of so much use, one gleam of day might, by possibility, penetrate into the cheerless dungeon of his remaining existence  though his longevity is, at present to say the least of it, extremely problematical.

this is the last communication, my dear copperfield, you will ever receive from the beggared outcast, wilkins micawber.


i was so shocked by the contents of this heartrending letter, that i ran off directly towards the little hotel with the intention of taking it on my way to doctor strongs, and trying to soothe mr.

micawber with a word of comfort. but, halfway there, i met the london coach with mr. and mrs. micawber up behind mr. micawber, the very picture of tranquil enjoyment, smiling at mrs. micawbers conversation, eating walnuts out of a paper bag, with a bottle sticking out of his breast pocket. as they did not see me, i thought it best, all things considered, not to see them. so, with a great weight taken off my mind, i turned into a bystreet that was the nearest way to school, and felt, upon the whole, relieved that they were gone though i still liked them very much, nevertheless.



chapter 

a retrospect

my schooldays the silent gliding on of my existence  the unseen, unfelt progress of my life  from childhood up to youth

let me think, as i look back upon that flowing water, now a dry channel overgrown with leaves, whether there are any marks along its course, by which i can remember how it ran.

a moment, and i occupy my place in the cathedral, where we all went together, every sunday morning, assembling first at school for that purpose. the earthy smell, the sunless air, the sensation of the world being shut out, the resounding of the organ through the black and white arched galleries and aisles, are wings that take me back, and hold me hovering above those days, in a halfsleeping and halfwaking dream.

i am not the last boy in the school. i have risen in a few months, over several heads. but the first boy seems to me a mighty creature, dwelling afar off, whose giddy height is unattainable.

agnes says no, but i say yes, and tell her that she little thinks what stores of knowledge have been mastered by the wonderful being, at whose place she thinks i, even i, weak aspirant, may arrive in time. he is not my private friend and public patron, as steerforth was, but i hold him in a reverential respect. i chiefly wonder what hell be, when he leaves doctor strongs, and what mankind will do to maintain any place against him.

but who is this that breaks upon me this is miss shepherd, whom i love.

miss shepherd is a boarder at the misses nettingalls establishment. i adore miss shepherd. she is a little girl, in a spencer, with a round face and curly flaxen hair. the misses nettingalls young ladies come to the cathedral too. i cannot look upon my book, for i must look upon miss shepherd. when the choristers chaunt, i hear miss shepherd. in the service i mentally insert miss shepherds name  i put her in among the royal family.

at home, in my own room, i am sometimes moved to cry out, oh, miss shepherd in a transport of love.

for some time, i am doubtful of miss shepherds feelings, but, at length, fate being propitious, we meet at the dancingschool. i have miss shepherd for my partner. i touch miss shepherds glove, and feel a thrill go up the right arm of my jacket, and come out at my hair. i say nothing to miss shepherd, but we understand each other. miss shepherd and myself live but to be united.

why do i secretly give miss shepherd twelve brazil nuts for a present, i wonder they are not expressive of affection, they are difficult to pack into a parcel of any regular shape, they are hard to crack, even in room doors, and they are oily when cracked yet i feel that they are appropriate to miss shepherd. soft, seedy biscuits, also, i bestow upon miss shepherd and oranges innumerable. once, i kiss miss shepherd in the cloakroom.

ecstasy what are my agony and indignation next day, when i hear a flying rumour that the misses nettingall have stood miss shepherd in the stocks for turning in her toes

miss shepherd being the one pervading theme and vision of my life, how do i ever come to break with her i cant conceive. and yet a coolness grows between miss shepherd and myself. whispers reach me of miss shepherd having said she wished i wouldnt stare so, and having avowed a preference for master jones  for jones a boy of no merit whatever the gulf between me and miss shepherd widens.

at last, one day, i meet the misses nettingalls establishment out walking. miss shepherd makes a face as she goes by, and laughs to her companion. all is over. the devotion of a life  it seems a life, it is all the same  is at an end miss shepherd comes out of the morning service, and the royal family know her no more.

i am higher in the school, and no one breaks my peace. i am not at all polite, now, to the misses nettingalls young ladies, and shouldnt dote on any of them, if they were twice as many and twenty times as beautiful. i think the dancingschool a tiresome affair, and wonder why the girls cant dance by themselves and leave us alone. i am growing great in latin verses, and neglect the laces of my boots. doctor strong refers to me in public as a promising young scholar. mr. dick is wild with joy, and my aunt remits me a guinea by the next post.

the shade of a young butcher rises, like the apparition of an armed head in macbeth. who is this young butcher he is the terror of the youth of canterbury. there is a vague belief abroad, that the beef suet with which he anoints his hair gives him unnatural strength, and that he is a match for a man. he is a broadfaced, bullnecked, young butcher, with rough red cheeks, an illconditioned mind, and an injurious tongue. his main use of this tongue, is, to disparage doctor strongs young gentlemen. he says, publicly, that if they want anything hell give it em. he names individuals among them myself included, whom he could undertake to settle with one hand, and the other tied behind him.

he waylays the smaller boys to punch their unprotected heads, and calls challenges after me in the open streets. for these sufficient reasons i resolve to fight the butcher.

it is a summer evening, down in a green hollow, at the corner of a wall. i meet the butcher by appointment. i am attended by a select body of our boys the butcher, by two other butchers, a young publican, and a sweep. the preliminaries are adjusted, and the butcher and myself stand face to face. in a moment the butcher lights ten thousand candles out of my left eyebrow. in another moment, i dont know where the wall is, or where i am, or where anybody is. i hardly know which is myself and which the butcher, we are always in such a tangle and tussle, knocking about upon the trodden grass. sometimes i see the butcher, bloody but confident sometimes i see nothing, and sit gasping on my seconds knee sometimes i go in at the butcher madly, and cut my knuckles open against his face, without appearing to discompose him at all. at last i awake, very queer about the head, as from a giddy sleep, and see the butcher walking off, congratulated by the two other butchers and the sweep and publican, and putting on his coat as he goes from which i augur, justly, that the victory is his.

i am taken home in a sad plight, and i have beefsteaks put to my eyes, and am rubbed with vinegar and brandy, and find a great puffy place bursting out on my upper lip, which swells immoderately. for three or four days i remain at home, a very illlooking subject, with a green shade over my eyes and i should be very dull, but that agnes is a sister to me, and condoles with me, and reads to me, and makes the time light and happy. agnes has my confidence completely, always i tell her all about the butcher, and the wrongs he has heaped upon me she thinks i couldnt have done otherwise than fight the butcher, while she shrinks and trembles at my having fought him.

time has stolen on unobserved, for adams is not the headboy in the days that are come now, nor has he been this many and many a day.

adams has left the school so long, that when he comes back, on a visit to doctor strong, there are not many there, besides myself, who know him. adams is going to be called to the bar almost directly, and is to be an advocate, and to wear a wig. i am surprised to find him a meeker man than i had thought, and less imposing in appearance. he has not staggered the world yet, either for it goes on as well as i can make out pretty much the same as if he had never joined it.

a blank, through which the warriors of poetry and history march on in stately hosts that seem to have no end  and what comes next

i am the headboy, now i look down on the line of boys below me, with a condescending interest in such of them as bring to my mind the boy i was myself, when i first came there. that little fellow seems to be no part of me i remember him as something left behind upon the road of life  as something i have passed, rather than have actually been  and almost think of him as of someone else.

and the little girl i saw on that first day at mr. wickfields, where is she gone also. in her stead, the perfect likeness of the picture, a child likeness no more, moves about the house and agnes  my sweet sister, as i call her in my thoughts, my counsellor and friend, the better angel of the lives of all who come within her calm, good, selfdenying influence  is quite a woman.

what other changes have come upon me, besides the changes in my growth and looks, and in the knowledge i have garnered all this while i wear a gold watch and chain, a ring upon my little finger, and a longtailed coat and i use a great deal of bears grease  which, taken in conjunction with the ring, looks bad. am i in love again i am. i worship the eldest miss larkins.

the eldest miss larkins is not a little girl. she is a tall, dark, blackeyed, fine figure of a woman. the eldest miss larkins is not a chicken for the youngest miss larkins is not that, and the eldest must be three or four years older. perhaps the eldest miss larkins may be about thirty. my passion for her is beyond all bounds.

the eldest miss larkins knows officers. it is an awful thing to bear. i see them speaking to her in the street. i see them cross the way to meet her, when her bonnet she has a bright taste in bonnets is seen coming down the pavement, accompanied by her sisters bonnet. she laughs and talks, and seems to like it. i spend a good deal of my own spare time in walking up and down to meet her. if i can bow to her once in the day i know her to bow to, knowing mr. larkins, i am happier. i deserve a bow now and then. the raging agonies i suffer on the night of the race ball, where i know the eldest miss larkins will be dancing with the military, ought to have some compensation, if there be evenhanded justice in the world.

my passion takes away my appetite, and makes me wear my newest silk neckerchief continually. i have no relief but in putting on my best clothes, and having my boots cleaned over and over again. i seem, then, to be worthier of the eldest miss larkins. everything that belongs to her, or is connected with her, is precious to me.

mr. larkins a gruff old gentleman with a double chin, and one of his eyes immovable in his head is fraught with interest to me.

when i cant meet his daughter, i go where i am likely to meet him.

to say how do you do, mr. larkins are the young ladies and all the family quite well seems so pointed, that i blush.

i think continually about my age. say i am seventeen, and say that seventeen is young for the eldest miss larkins, what of that

besides, i shall be oneandtwenty in no time almost. i regularly take walks outside mr. larkinss house in the evening, though it cuts me to the heart to see the officers go in, or to hear them up in the drawingroom, where the eldest miss larkins plays the harp.

i even walk, on two or three occasions, in a sickly, spoony manner, round and round the house after the family are gone to bed, wondering which is the eldest miss larkinss chamber and pitching, i dare say now, on mr. larkinss instead wishing that a fire would burst out that the assembled crowd would stand appalled that i, dashing through them with a ladder, might rear it against her window, save her in my arms, go back for something she had left behind, and perish in the flames. for i am generally disinterested in my love, and think i could be content to make a figure before miss larkins, and expire.

generally, but not always. sometimes brighter visions rise before me. when i dress the occupation of two hours, for a great ball given at the larkinss the anticipation of three weeks, i indulge my fancy with pleasing images. i picture myself taking courage to make a declaration to miss larkins. i picture miss larkins sinking her head upon my shoulder, and saying, oh, mr. copperfield, can i believe my ears i picture mr. larkins waiting on me next morning, and saying, my dear copperfield, my daughter has told me all.

youth is no objection. here are twenty thousand pounds. be happy i picture my aunt relenting, and blessing us and mr. dick and doctor strong being present at the marriage ceremony. i am a sensible fellow, i believe  i believe, on looking back, i mean  and modest i am sure but all this goes on notwithstanding.

i repair to the enchanted house, where there are lights, chattering, music, flowers, officers i am sorry to see, and the eldest miss larkins, a blaze of beauty. she is dressed in blue, with blue flowers in her hair  forgetmenots  as if she had any need to wear forgetmenots. it is the first really grownup party that i have ever been invited to, and i am a little uncomfortable for i appear not to belong to anybody, and nobody appears to have anything to say to me, except mr. larkins, who asks me how my schoolfellows are, which he neednt do, as i have not come there to be insulted.

but after i have stood in the doorway for some time, and feasted my eyes upon the goddess of my heart, she approaches me  she, the eldest miss larkins  and asks me pleasantly, if i dance

i stammer, with a bow, with you, miss larkins.

with no one else inquires miss larkins.

i should have no pleasure in dancing with anyone else.

miss larkins laughs and blushes or i think she blushes, and says, next time but one, i shall be very glad.

the time arrives. it is a waltz, i think, miss larkins doubtfully observes, when i present myself. do you waltz if not, captain bailey 

but i do waltz pretty well, too, as it happens, and i take miss larkins out. i take her sternly from the side of captain bailey.

he is wretched, i have no doubt but he is nothing to me. i have been wretched, too. i waltz with the eldest miss larkins i dont know where, among whom, or how long. i only know that i swim about in space, with a blue angel, in a state of blissful delirium, until i find myself alone with her in a little room, resting on a sofa.

she admires a flower pink camellia japonica, price halfacrown, in my buttonhole. i give it her, and say i ask an inestimable price for it, miss larkins.

indeed what is that returns miss larkins.

a flower of yours, that i may treasure it as a miser does gold.

youre a bold boy, says miss larkins. there.

she gives it me, not displeased and i put it to my lips, and then into my breast. miss larkins, laughing, draws her hand through my arm, and says, now take me back to captain bailey.

i am lost in the recollection of this delicious interview, and the waltz, when she comes to me again, with a plain elderly gentleman who has been playing whist all night, upon her arm, and says oh here is my bold friend mr. chestle wants to know you, mr.

copperfield.

i feel at once that he is a friend of the family, and am much gratified.

i admire your taste, sir, says mr. chestle. it does you credit.

i suppose you dont take much interest in hops but i am a pretty large grower myself and if you ever like to come over to our neighbourhood  neighbourhood of ashford  and take a run about our place, we shall be glad for you to stop as long as you like.

i thank mr. chestle warmly, and shake hands. i think i am in a happy dream. i waltz with the eldest miss larkins once again. she says i waltz so well i go home in a state of unspeakable bliss, and waltz in imagination, all night long, with my arm round the blue waist of my dear divinity. for some days afterwards, i am lost in rapturous reflections but i neither see her in the street, nor when i call. i am imperfectly consoled for this disappointment by the sacred pledge, the perished flower.

trotwood, says agnes, one day after dinner. who do you think is going to be married tomorrow someone you admire.

not you, i suppose, agnes

not me raising her cheerful face from the music she is copying.

do you hear him, papa  the eldest miss larkins.

to  to captain bailey i have just enough power to ask.

no to no captain. to mr. chestle, a hopgrower.

i am terribly dejected for about a week or two. i take off my ring, i wear my worst clothes, i use no bears grease, and i frequently lament over the late miss larkinss faded flower.

being, by that time, rather tired of this kind of life, and having received new provocation from the butcher, i throw the flower away, go out with the butcher, and gloriously defeat him.

this, and the resumption of my ring, as well as of the bears grease in moderation, are the last marks i can discern, now, in my progress to seventeen.



chapter 

i look about me, and make a discovery

i am doubtful whether i was at heart glad or sorry, when my schooldays drew to an end, and the time came for my leaving doctor strongs. i had been very happy there, i had a great attachment for the doctor, and i was eminent and distinguished in that little world. for these reasons i was sorry to go but for other reasons, unsubstantial enough, i was glad. misty ideas of being a young man at my own disposal, of the importance attaching to a young man at his own disposal, of the wonderful things to be seen and done by that magnificent animal, and the wonderful effects he could not fail to make upon society, lured me away. so powerful were these visionary considerations in my boyish mind, that i seem, according to my present way of thinking, to have left school without natural regret. the separation has not made the impression on me, that other separations have. i try in vain to recall how i felt about it, and what its circumstances were but it is not momentous in my recollection. i suppose the opening prospect confused me. i know that my juvenile experiences went for little or nothing then and that life was more like a great fairy story, which i was just about to begin to read, than anything else.

my aunt and i had held many grave deliberations on the calling to which i should be devoted. for a year or more i had endeavoured to find a satisfactory answer to her oftenrepeated question, what i would like to be but i had no particular liking, that i could discover, for anything. if i could have been inspired with a knowledge of the science of navigation, taken the command of a fastsailing expedition, and gone round the world on a triumphant voyage of discovery, i think i might have considered myself completely suited. but, in the absence of any such miraculous provision, my desire was to apply myself to some pursuit that would not lie too heavily upon her purse and to do my duty in it, whatever it might be.

mr. dick had regularly assisted at our councils, with a meditative and sage demeanour. he never made a suggestion but once and on that occasion i dont know what put it in his head, he suddenly proposed that i should be a brazier. my aunt received this proposal so very ungraciously, that he never ventured on a second but ever afterwards confined himself to looking watchfully at her for her suggestions, and rattling his money.

trot, i tell you what, my dear, said my aunt, one morning in the christmas season when i left school as this knotty point is still unsettled, and as we must not make a mistake in our decision if we can help it, i think we had better take a little breathingtime.

in the meanwhile, you must try to look at it from a new point of view, and not as a schoolboy.

i will, aunt.

it has occurred to me, pursued my aunt, that a little change, and a glimpse of life out of doors, may be useful in helping you to know your own mind, and form a cooler judgement. suppose you were to go down into the old part of the country again, for instance, and see that  that outoftheway woman with the savagest of names, said my aunt, rubbing her nose, for she could never thoroughly forgive peggotty for being so called.

of all things in the world, aunt, i should like it best

well, said my aunt, thats lucky, for i should like it too. but its natural and rational that you should like it. and i am very well persuaded that whatever you do, trot, will always be natural and rational.

i hope so, aunt.

your sister, betsey trotwood, said my aunt, would have been as natural and rational a girl as ever breathed. youll be worthy of her, wont you

i hope i shall be worthy of you, aunt. that will be enough for me.

its a mercy that poor dear baby of a mother of yours didnt live, said my aunt, looking at me approvingly, or shed have been so vain of her boy by this time, that her soft little head would have been completely turned, if there was anything of it left to turn. my aunt always excused any weakness of her own in my behalf, by transferring it in this way to my poor mother. bless me, trotwood, how you do remind me of her

pleasantly, i hope, aunt said i.

hes as like her, dick, said my aunt, emphatically, hes as like her, as she was that afternoon before she began to fret  bless my heart, hes as like her, as he can look at me out of his two eyes

is he indeed said mr. dick.

and hes like david, too, said my aunt, decisively.

he is very like david said mr. dick.

but what i want you to be, trot, resumed my aunt,  i dont mean physically, but morally you are very well physically  is, a firm fellow. a fine firm fellow, with a will of your own. with resolution, said my aunt, shaking her cap at me, and clenching her hand. with determination. with character, trot  with strength of character that is not to be influenced, except on good reason, by anybody, or by anything. thats what i want you to be. thats what your father and mother might both have been, heaven knows, and been the better for it.

i intimated that i hoped i should be what she described.

that you may begin, in a small way, to have a reliance upon yourself, and to act for yourself, said my aunt, i shall send you upon your trip, alone. i did think, once, of mr. dicks going with you but, on second thoughts, i shall keep him to take care of me.

mr. dick, for a moment, looked a little disappointed until the honour and dignity of having to take care of the most wonderful woman in the world, restored the sunshine to his face.

besides, said my aunt, theres the memorial 

oh, certainly, said mr. dick, in a hurry, i intend, trotwood, to get that done immediately  it really must be done immediately

and then it will go in, you know  and then  said mr. dick, after checking himself, and pausing a long time, therell be a pretty kettle of fish

in pursuance of my aunts kind scheme, i was shortly afterwards fitted out with a handsome purse of money, and a portmanteau, and tenderly dismissed upon my expedition. at parting, my aunt gave me some good advice, and a good many kisses and said that as her object was that i should look about me, and should think a little, she would recommend me to stay a few days in london, if i liked it, either on my way down into suffolk, or in coming back. in a word, i was at liberty to do what i would, for three weeks or a month and no other conditions were imposed upon my freedom than the beforementioned thinking and looking about me, and a pledge to write three times a week and faithfully report myself.

i went to canterbury first, that i might take leave of agnes and mr. wickfield my old room in whose house i had not yet relinquished, and also of the good doctor. agnes was very glad to see me, and told me that the house had not been like itself since i had left it.

i am sure i am not like myself when i am away, said i. i seem to want my right hand, when i miss you. though thats not saying much for theres no head in my right hand, and no heart. everyone who knows you, consults with you, and is guided by you, agnes.

everyone who knows me, spoils me, i believe, she answered, smiling.

no. its because you are like no one else. you are so good, and so sweettempered. you have such a gentle nature, and you are always right.

you talk, said agnes, breaking into a pleasant laugh, as she sat at work, as if i were the late miss larkins.

come its not fair to abuse my confidence, i answered, reddening at the recollection of my blue enslaver. but i shall confide in you, just the same, agnes. i can never grow out of that. whenever i fall into trouble, or fall in love, i shall always tell you, if youll let me  even when i come to fall in love in earnest.

why, you have always been in earnest said agnes, laughing again.

oh that was as a child, or a schoolboy, said i, laughing in my turn, not without being a little shamefaced. times are altering now, and i suppose i shall be in a terrible state of earnestness one day or other. my wonder is, that you are not in earnest yourself, by this time, agnes.

agnes laughed again, and shook her head.

oh, i know you are not said i, because if you had been you would have told me. or at least  for i saw a faint blush in her face, you would have let me find it out for myself. but there is no one that i know of, who deserves to love you, agnes. someone of a nobler character, and more worthy altogether than anyone i have ever seen here, must rise up, before i give my consent. in the time to come, i shall have a wary eye on all admirers and shall exact a great deal from the successful one, i assure you.

we had gone on, so far, in a mixture of confidential jest and earnest, that had long grown naturally out of our familiar relations, begun as mere children. but agnes, now suddenly lifting up her eyes to mine, and speaking in a different manner, said trotwood, there is something that i want to ask you, and that i may not have another opportunity of asking for a long time, perhaps  something i would ask, i think, of no one else. have you observed any gradual alteration in papa

i had observed it, and had often wondered whether she had too. i must have shown as much, now, in my face for her eyes were in a moment cast down, and i saw tears in them.

tell me what it is, she said, in a low voice.

i think  shall i be quite plain, agnes, liking him so much

yes, she said.

i think he does himself no good by the habit that has increased upon him since i first came here. he is often very nervous  or i fancy so.

it is not fancy, said agnes, shaking her head.

his hand trembles, his speech is not plain, and his eyes look wild. i have remarked that at those times, and when he is least like himself, he is most certain to be wanted on some business.

by uriah, said agnes.

yes and the sense of being unfit for it, or of not having understood it, or of having shown his condition in spite of himself, seems to make him so uneasy, that next day he is worse, and next day worse, and so he becomes jaded and haggard. do not be alarmed by what i say, agnes, but in this state i saw him, only the other evening, lay down his head upon his desk, and shed tears like a child.

her hand passed softly before my lips while i was yet speaking, and in a moment she had met her father at the door of the room, and was hanging on his shoulder. the expression of her face, as they both looked towards me, i felt to be very touching. there was such deep fondness for him, and gratitude to him for all his love and care, in her beautiful look and there was such a fervent appeal to me to deal tenderly by him, even in my inmost thoughts, and to let no harsh construction find any place against him she was, at once, so proud of him and devoted to him, yet so compassionate and sorry, and so reliant upon me to be so, too that nothing she could have said would have expressed more to me, or moved me more.

we were to drink tea at the doctors. we went there at the usual hour and round the study fireside found the doctor, and his young wife, and her mother. the doctor, who made as much of my going away as if i were going to china, received me as an honoured guest and called for a log of wood to be thrown on the fire, that he might see the face of his old pupil reddening in the blaze.

i shall not see many more new faces in trotwoods stead, wickfield, said the doctor, warming his hands i am getting lazy, and want ease. i shall relinquish all my young people in another six months, and lead a quieter life.

you have said so, any time these ten years, doctor, mr. wickfield answered.

but now i mean to do it, returned the doctor. my first master will succeed me  i am in earnest at last  so youll soon have to arrange our contracts, and to bind us firmly to them, like a couple of knaves.

and to take care, said mr. wickfield, that youre not imposed on, eh as you certainly would be, in any contract you should make for yourself. well i am ready. there are worse tasks than that, in my calling.

i shall have nothing to think of then, said the doctor, with a smile, but my dictionary and this other contractbargain  annie.

as mr. wickfield glanced towards her, sitting at the tea table by agnes, she seemed to me to avoid his look with such unwonted hesitation and timidity, that his attention became fixed upon her, as if something were suggested to his thoughts.

there is a post come in from india, i observe, he said, after a short silence.

by the by and letters from mr. jack maldon said the doctor.

indeed

poor dear jack said mrs. markleham, shaking her head. that trying climate  like living, they tell me, on a sandheap, underneath a burningglass he looked strong, but he wasnt. my dear doctor, it was his spirit, not his constitution, that he ventured on so boldly. annie, my dear, i am sure you must perfectly recollect that your cousin never was strong  not what can be called robust, you know, said mrs. markleham, with emphasis, and looking round upon us generally,  from the time when my daughter and himself were children together, and walking about, arminarm, the livelong day.

annie, thus addressed, made no reply.

do i gather from what you say, maam, that mr. maldon is ill asked mr. wickfield.

ill replied the old soldier. my dear sir, hes all sorts of things.

except well said mr. wickfield.

except well, indeed said the old soldier. he has had dreadful strokes of the sun, no doubt, and jungle fevers and agues, and every kind of thing you can mention. as to his liver, said the old soldier resignedly, that, of course, he gave up altogether, when he first went out

does he say all this asked mr. wickfield.

say my dear sir, returned mrs. markleham, shaking her head and her fan, you little know my poor jack maldon when you ask that question. say not he. you might drag him at the heels of four wild horses first.

mama said mrs. strong.

annie, my dear, returned her mother, once for all, i must really beg that you will not interfere with me, unless it is to confirm what i say. you know as well as i do that your cousin maldon would be dragged at the heels of any number of wild horses  why should i confine myself to four i wont confine myself to four  eight, sixteen, twoandthirty, rather than say anything calculated to overturn the doctors plans.

wickfields plans, said the doctor, stroking his face, and looking penitently at his adviser. that is to say, our joint plans for him. i said myself, abroad or at home.

and i said added mr. wickfield gravely, abroad. i was the means of sending him abroad. its my responsibility.

oh responsibility said the old soldier. everything was done for the best, my dear mr. wickfield everything was done for the kindest and best, we know. but if the dear fellow cant live there, he cant live there. and if he cant live there, hell die there, sooner than hell overturn the doctors plans. i know him, said the old soldier, fanning herself, in a sort of calm prophetic agony, and i know hell die there, sooner than hell overturn the doctors plans.

well, well, maam, said the doctor cheerfully, i am not bigoted to my plans, and i can overturn them myself. i can substitute some other plans. if mr. jack maldon comes home on account of ill health, he must not be allowed to go back, and we must endeavour to make some more suitable and fortunate provision for him in this country.

mrs. markleham was so overcome by this generous speech  which, i need not say, she had not at all expected or led up to  that she could only tell the doctor it was like himself, and go several times through that operation of kissing the sticks of her fan, and then tapping his hand with it. after which she gently chid her daughter annie, for not being more demonstrative when such kindnesses were showered, for her sake, on her old playfellow and entertained us with some particulars concerning other deserving members of her family, whom it was desirable to set on their deserving legs.

all this time, her daughter annie never once spoke, or lifted up her eyes. all this time, mr. wickfield had his glance upon her as she sat by his own daughters side. it appeared to me that he never thought of being observed by anyone but was so intent upon her, and upon his own thoughts in connexion with her, as to be quite absorbed. he now asked what mr. jack maldon had actually written in reference to himself, and to whom he had written why, here, said mrs. markleham, taking a letter from the chimneypiece above the doctors head, the dear fellow says to the doctor himself  where is it oh  i am sorry to inform you that my health is suffering severely, and that i fear i may be reduced to the necessity of returning home for a time, as the only hope of restoration. thats pretty plain, poor fellow his only hope of restoration but annies letter is plainer still. annie, show me that letter again.

not now, mama, she pleaded in a low tone.

my dear, you absolutely are, on some subjects, one of the most ridiculous persons in the world, returned her mother, and perhaps the most unnatural to the claims of your own family. we never should have heard of the letter at all, i believe, unless i had asked for it myself. do you call that confidence, my love, towards doctor strong i am surprised. you ought to know better.

the letter was reluctantly produced and as i handed it to the old lady, i saw how the unwilling hand from which i took it, trembled.

now let us see, said mrs. markleham, putting her glass to her eye, where the passage is. the remembrance of old times, my dearest annie  and so forth  its not there. the amiable old proctor  whos he dear me, annie, how illegibly your cousin maldon writes, and how stupid i am doctor, of course. ah amiable indeed here she left off, to kiss her fan again, and shake it at the doctor, who was looking at us in a state of placid satisfaction. now i have found it. you may not be surprised to hear, annie,  no, to be sure, knowing that he never was really strong what did i say just now  that i have undergone so much in this distant place, as to have decided to leave it at all hazards on sick leave, if i can on total resignation, if that is not to be obtained. what i have endured, and do endure here, is insupportable. and but for the promptitude of that best of creatures, said mrs. markleham, telegraphing the doctor as before, and refolding the letter, it would be insupportable to me to think of.

mr. wickfield said not one word, though the old lady looked to him as if for his commentary on this intelligence but sat severely silent, with his eyes fixed on the ground. long after the subject was dismissed, and other topics occupied us, he remained so seldom raising his eyes, unless to rest them for a moment, with a thoughtful frown, upon the doctor, or his wife, or both.

the doctor was very fond of music. agnes sang with great sweetness and expression, and so did mrs. strong. they sang together, and played duets together, and we had quite a little concert. but i remarked two things first, that though annie soon recovered her composure, and was quite herself, there was a blank between her and mr. wickfield which separated them wholly from each other secondly, that mr. wickfield seemed to dislike the intimacy between her and agnes, and to watch it with uneasiness. and now, i must confess, the recollection of what i had seen on that night when mr.

maldon went away, first began to return upon me with a meaning it had never had, and to trouble me. the innocent beauty of her face was not as innocent to me as it had been i mistrusted the natural grace and charm of her manner and when i looked at agnes by her side, and thought how good and true agnes was, suspicions arose within me that it was an illassorted friendship.

she was so happy in it herself, however, and the other was so happy too, that they made the evening fly away as if it were but an hour.

it closed in an incident which i well remember. they were taking leave of each other, and agnes was going to embrace her and kiss her, when mr. wickfield stepped between them, as if by accident, and drew agnes quickly away. then i saw, as though all the intervening time had been cancelled, and i were still standing in the doorway on the night of the departure, the expression of that night in the face of mrs. strong, as it confronted his.

i cannot say what an impression this made upon me, or how impossible i found it, when i thought of her afterwards, to separate her from this look, and remember her face in its innocent loveliness again. it haunted me when i got home. i seemed to have left the doctors roof with a dark cloud lowering on it. the reverence that i had for his grey head, was mingled with commiseration for his faith in those who were treacherous to him, and with resentment against those who injured him. the impending shadow of a great affliction, and a great disgrace that had no distinct form in it yet, fell like a stain upon the quiet place where i had worked and played as a boy, and did it a cruel wrong.

i had no pleasure in thinking, any more, of the grave old broadleaved aloetrees, which remained shut up in themselves a hundred years together, and of the trim smooth grassplot, and the stone urns, and the doctors walk, and the congenial sound of the cathedral bell hovering above them all. it was as if the tranquil sanctuary of my boyhood had been sacked before my face, and its peace and honour given to the winds.

but morning brought with it my parting from the old house, which agnes had filled with her influence and that occupied my mind sufficiently. i should be there again soon, no doubt i might sleep again  perhaps often  in my old room but the days of my inhabiting there were gone, and the old time was past. i was heavier at heart when i packed up such of my books and clothes as still remained there to be sent to dover, than i cared to show to uriah heep who was so officious to help me, that i uncharitably thought him mighty glad that i was going.

i got away from agnes and her father, somehow, with an indifferent show of being very manly, and took my seat upon the box of the london coach. i was so softened and forgiving, going through the town, that i had half a mind to nod to my old enemy the butcher, and throw him five shillings to drink. but he looked such a very obdurate butcher as he stood scraping the great block in the shop, and moreover, his appearance was so little improved by the loss of a front tooth which i had knocked out, that i thought it best to make no advances.

the main object on my mind, i remember, when we got fairly on the road, was to appear as old as possible to the coachman, and to speak extremely gruff. the latter point i achieved at great personal inconvenience but i stuck to it, because i felt it was a grownup sort of thing.

you are going through, sir said the coachman.

yes, william, i said, condescendingly i knew him i am going to london. i shall go down into suffolk afterwards.

shooting, sir said the coachman.

he knew as well as i did that it was just as likely, at that time of year, i was going down there whaling but i felt complimented, too.

i dont know, i said, pretending to be undecided, whether i shall take a shot or not.

birds is got wery shy, im told, said william.

so i understand, said i.

is suffolk your county, sir asked william.

yes, i said, with some importance. suffolks my county.

im told the dumplings is uncommon fine down there, said william.

i was not aware of it myself, but i felt it necessary to uphold the institutions of my county, and to evince a familiarity with them so i shook my head, as much as to say, i believe you

and the punches, said william. theres cattle a suffolk punch, when hes a good un, is worth his weight in gold. did you ever breed any suffolk punches yourself, sir

nno, i said, not exactly.

heres a genlmn behind me, ill pound it, said william, as has bred em by wholesale.

the gentleman spoken of was a gentleman with a very unpromising squint, and a prominent chin, who had a tall white hat on with a narrow flat brim, and whose closefitting drab trousers seemed to button all the way up outside his legs from his boots to his hips.

his chin was cocked over the coachmans shoulder, so near to me, that his breath quite tickled the back of my head and as i looked at him, he leered at the leaders with the eye with which he didnt squint, in a very knowing manner.

aint you asked william.

aint i what said the gentleman behind.

bred them suffolk punches by wholesale

i should think so, said the gentleman. there aint no sort of orse that i aint bred, and no sort of dorg. orses and dorgs is some mens fancy. theyre wittles and drink to me  lodging, wife, and children  reading, writing, and arithmetic  snuff, tobacker, and sleep.

that aint a sort of man to see sitting behind a coachbox, is it though said william in my ear, as he handled the reins.

i construed this remark into an indication of a wish that he should have my place, so i blushingly offered to resign it.

well, if you dont mind, sir, said william, i think it would be more correct.

i have always considered this as the first fall i had in life.

when i booked my place at the coach office i had had box seat written against the entry, and had given the bookkeeper halfacrown. i was got up in a special greatcoat and shawl, expressly to do honour to that distinguished eminence had glorified myself upon it a good deal and had felt that i was a credit to the coach. and here, in the very first stage, i was supplanted by a shabby man with a squint, who had no other merit than smelling like a liverystables, and being able to walk across me, more like a fly than a human being, while the horses were at a canter

a distrust of myself, which has often beset me in life on small occasions, when it would have been better away, was assuredly not stopped in its growth by this little incident outside the canterbury coach. it was in vain to take refuge in gruffness of speech. i spoke from the pit of my stomach for the rest of the journey, but i felt completely extinguished, and dreadfully young.

it was curious and interesting, nevertheless, to be sitting up there behind four horses well educated, well dressed, and with plenty of money in my pocket and to look out for the places where i had slept on my weary journey. i had abundant occupation for my thoughts, in every conspicuous landmark on the road. when i looked down at the trampers whom we passed, and saw that wellremembered style of face turned up, i felt as if the tinkers blackened hand were in the bosom of my shirt again. when we clattered through the narrow street of chatham, and i caught a glimpse, in passing, of the lane where the old monster lived who had bought my jacket, i stretched my neck eagerly to look for the place where i had sat, in the sun and in the shade, waiting for my money. when we came, at last, within a stage of london, and passed the veritable salem house where mr. creakle had laid about him with a heavy hand, i would have given all i had, for lawful permission to get down and thrash him, and let all the boys out like so many caged sparrows.

we went to the golden cross at charing cross, then a mouldy sort of establishment in a close neighbourhood. a waiter showed me into the coffeeroom and a chambermaid introduced me to my small bedchamber, which smelt like a hackneycoach, and was shut up like a family vault. i was still painfully conscious of my youth, for nobody stood in any awe of me at all the chambermaid being utterly indifferent to my opinions on any subject, and the waiter being familiar with me, and offering advice to my inexperience.

well now, said the waiter, in a tone of confidence, what would you like for dinner young gentlemen likes poultry in general have a fowl

i told him, as majestically as i could, that i wasnt in the humour for a fowl.

aint you said the waiter. young gentlemen is generally tired of beef and mutton have a weal cutlet

i assented to this proposal, in default of being able to suggest anything else.

do you care for taters said the waiter, with an insinuating smile, and his head on one side. young gentlemen generally has been overdosed with taters.

i commanded him, in my deepest voice, to order a veal cutlet and potatoes, and all things fitting and to inquire at the bar if there were any letters for trotwood copperfield, esquire  which i knew there were not, and couldnt be, but thought it manly to appear to expect.

he soon came back to say that there were none at which i was much surprised and began to lay the cloth for my dinner in a box by the fire. while he was so engaged, he asked me what i would take with it and on my replying half a pint of sherry,thought it a favourable opportunity, i am afraid, to extract that measure of wine from the stale leavings at the bottoms of several small decanters. i am of this opinion, because, while i was reading the newspaper, i observed him behind a low wooden partition, which was his private apartment, very busy pouring out of a number of those vessels into one, like a chemist and druggist making up a prescription. when the wine came, too, i thought it flat and it certainly had more english crumbs in it, than were to be expected in a foreign wine in anything like a pure state, but i was bashful enough to drink it, and say nothing.

being then in a pleasant frame of mind from which i infer that poisoning is not always disagreeable in some stages of the process, i resolved to go to the play. it was covent garden theatre that i chose and there, from the back of a centre box, i saw julius caesar and the new pantomime. to have all those noble romans alive before me, and walking in and out for my entertainment, instead of being the stern taskmasters they had been at school, was a most novel and delightful effect. but the mingled reality and mystery of the whole show, the influence upon me of the poetry, the lights, the music, the company, the smooth stupendous changes of glittering and brilliant scenery, were so dazzling, and opened up such illimitable regions of delight, that when i came out into the rainy street, at twelve oclock at night, i felt as if i had come from the clouds, where i had been leading a romantic life for ages, to a bawling, splashing, linklighted, umbrellastruggling, hackneycoachjostling, pattenclinking, muddy, miserable world.

i had emerged by another door, and stood in the street for a little while, as if i really were a stranger upon earth but the unceremonious pushing and hustling that i received, soon recalled me to myself, and put me in the road back to the hotel whither i went, revolving the glorious vision all the way and where, after some porter and oysters, i sat revolving it still, at past one oclock, with my eyes on the coffeeroom fire.

i was so filled with the play, and with the past  for it was, in a manner, like a shining transparency, through which i saw my earlier life moving along  that i dont know when the figure of a handsome wellformed young man dressed with a tasteful easy negligence which i have reason to remember very well, became a real presence to me. but i recollect being conscious of his company without having noticed his coming in  and my still sitting, musing, over the coffeeroom fire.

at last i rose to go to bed, much to the relief of the sleepy waiter, who had got the fidgets in his legs, and was twisting them, and hitting them, and putting them through all kinds of contortions in his small pantry. in going towards the door, i passed the person who had come in, and saw him plainly. i turned directly, came back, and looked again. he did not know me, but i knew him in a moment.

at another time i might have wanted the confidence or the decision to speak to him, and might have put it off until next day, and might have lost him. but, in the then condition of my mind, where the play was still running high, his former protection of me appeared so deserving of my gratitude, and my old love for him overflowed my breast so freshly and spontaneously, that i went up to him at once, with a fastbeating heart, and said steerforth wont you speak to me

he looked at me  just as he used to look, sometimes but i saw no recognition in his face.

you dont remember me, i am afraid, said i.

my god he suddenly exclaimed. its little copperfield

i grasped him by both hands, and could not let them go. but for very shame, and the fear that it might displease him, i could have held him round the neck and cried.

i never, never, never was so glad my dear steerforth, i am so overjoyed to see you

and i am rejoiced to see you, too he said, shaking my hands heartily. why, copperfield, old boy, dont be overpowered and yet he was glad, too, i thought, to see how the delight i had in meeting him affected me.

i brushed away the tears that my utmost resolution had not been able to keep back, and i made a clumsy laugh of it, and we sat down together, side by side.

why, how do you come to be here said steerforth, clapping me on the shoulder.

i came here by the canterbury coach, today. i have been adopted by an aunt down in that part of the country, and have just finished my education there. how do you come to be here, steerforth

well, i am what they call an oxford man, he returned that is to say, i get bored to death down there, periodically  and i am on my way now to my mothers. youre a devilish amiablelooking fellow, copperfield. just what you used to be, now i look at you not altered in the least

i knew you immediately, i said but you are more easily remembered.

he laughed as he ran his hand through the clustering curls of his hair, and said gaily yes, i am on an expedition of duty. my mother lives a little way out of town and the roads being in a beastly condition, and our house tedious enough, i remained here tonight instead of going on.

i have not been in town halfadozen hours, and those i have been dozing and grumbling away at the play.

i have been at the play, too, said i. at covent garden. what a delightful and magnificent entertainment, steerforth

steerforth laughed heartily.

my dear young davy, he said, clapping me on the shoulder again, you are a very daisy. the daisy of the field, at sunrise, is not fresher than you are. i have been at covent garden, too, and there never was a more miserable business. holloa, you sir

this was addressed to the waiter, who had been very attentive to our recognition, at a distance, and now came forward deferentially.

where have you put my friend, mr. copperfield said steerforth.

beg your pardon, sir

where does he sleep whats his number you know what i mean, said steerforth.

well, sir, said the waiter, with an apologetic air. mr.

copperfield is at present in fortyfour, sir.

and what the devil do you mean, retorted steerforth, by putting mr. copperfield into a little loft over a stable

why, you see we wasnt aware, sir, returned the waiter, still apologetically, as mr. copperfield was anyways particular. we can give mr. copperfield seventytwo, sir, if it would be preferred.

next you, sir.

of course it would be preferred, said steerforth. and do it at once.

the waiter immediately withdrew to make the exchange. steerforth, very much amused at my having been put into fortyfour, laughed again, and clapped me on the shoulder again, and invited me to breakfast with him next morning at ten oclock  an invitation i was only too proud and happy to accept. it being now pretty late, we took our candles and went upstairs, where we parted with friendly heartiness at his door, and where i found my new room a great improvement on my old one, it not being at all musty, and having an immense fourpost bedstead in it, which was quite a little landed estate. here, among pillows enough for six, i soon fell asleep in a blissful condition, and dreamed of ancient rome, steerforth, and friendship, until the early morning coaches, rumbling out of the archway underneath, made me dream of thunder and the gods.



chapter 

steerforths home

when the chambermaid tapped at my door at eight oclock, and informed me that my shavingwater was outside, i felt severely the having no occasion for it, and blushed in my bed. the suspicion that she laughed too, when she said it, preyed upon my mind all the time i was dressing and gave me, i was conscious, a sneaking and guilty air when i passed her on the staircase, as i was going down to breakfast. i was so sensitively aware, indeed, of being younger than i could have wished, that for some time i could not make up my mind to pass her at all, under the ignoble circumstances of the case but, hearing her there with a broom, stood peeping out of window at king charles on horseback, surrounded by a maze of hackneycoaches, and looking anything but regal in a drizzling rain and a darkbrown fog, until i was admonished by the waiter that the gentleman was waiting for me.

it was not in the coffeeroom that i found steerforth expecting me, but in a snug private apartment, redcurtained and turkeycarpeted, where the fire burnt bright, and a fine hot breakfast was set forth on a table covered with a clean cloth and a cheerful miniature of the room, the fire, the breakfast, steerforth, and all, was shining in the little round mirror over the sideboard. i was rather bashful at first, steerforth being so selfpossessed, and elegant, and superior to me in all respects age included but his easy patronage soon put that to rights, and made me quite at home. i could not enough admire the change he had wrought in the golden cross or compare the dull forlorn state i had held yesterday, with this mornings comfort and this mornings entertainment. as to the waiters familiarity, it was quenched as if it had never been. he attended on us, as i may say, in sackcloth and ashes.

now, copperfield, said steerforth, when we were alone, i should like to hear what you are doing, and where you are going, and all about you. i feel as if you were my property.

glowing with pleasure to find that he had still this interest in me, i told him how my aunt had proposed the little expedition that i had before me, and whither it tended.

as you are in no hurry, then, said steerforth, come home with me to highgate, and stay a day or two. you will be pleased with my mother  she is a little vain and prosy about me, but that you can forgive her  and she will be pleased with you.

i should like to be as sure of that, as you are kind enough to say you are, i answered, smiling.

oh said steerforth, everyone who likes me, has a claim on her that is sure to be acknowledged.

then i think i shall be a favourite, said i.

good said steerforth. come and prove it. we will go and see the lions for an hour or two  its something to have a fresh fellow like you to show them to, copperfield  and then well journey out to highgate by the coach.

i could hardly believe but that i was in a dream, and that i should wake presently in number fortyfour, to the solitary box in the coffeeroom and the familiar waiter again. after i had written to my aunt and told her of my fortunate meeting with my admired old schoolfellow, and my acceptance of his invitation, we went out in a hackneychariot, and saw a panorama and some other sights, and took a walk through the museum, where i could not help observing how much steerforth knew, on an infinite variety of subjects, and of how little account he seemed to make his knowledge.

youll take a high degree at college, steerforth, said i, if you have not done so already and they will have good reason to be proud of you.

i take a degree cried steerforth. not i my dear daisy  will you mind my calling you daisy

not at all said i.

thats a good fellow my dear daisy, said steerforth, laughing.

i have not the least desire or intention to distinguish myself in that way. i have done quite sufficient for my purpose. i find that i am heavy company enough for myself as i am.

but the fame  i was beginning.

you romantic daisy said steerforth, laughing still more heartily why should i trouble myself, that a parcel of heavyheaded fellows may gape and hold up their hands let them do it at some other man. theres fame for him, and hes welcome to it.

i was abashed at having made so great a mistake, and was glad to change the subject. fortunately it was not difficult to do, for steerforth could always pass from one subject to another with a carelessness and lightness that were his own.

lunch succeeded to our sightseeing, and the short winter day wore away so fast, that it was dusk when the stagecoach stopped with us at an old brick house at highgate on the summit of the hill. an elderly lady, though not very far advanced in years, with a proud carriage and a handsome face, was in the doorway as we alighted and greeting steerforth as my dearest james, folded him in her arms. to this lady he presented me as his mother, and she gave me a stately welcome.

it was a genteel oldfashioned house, very quiet and orderly. from the windows of my room i saw all london lying in the distance like a great vapour, with here and there some lights twinkling through it. i had only time, in dressing, to glance at the solid furniture, the framed pieces of work done, i supposed, by steerforths mother when she was a girl, and some pictures in crayons of ladies with powdered hair and bodices, coming and going on the walls, as the newlykindled fire crackled and sputtered, when i was called to dinner.

there was a second lady in the diningroom, of a slight short figure, dark, and not agreeable to look at, but with some appearance of good looks too, who attracted my attention perhaps because i had not expected to see her perhaps because i found myself sitting opposite to her perhaps because of something really remarkable in her. she had black hair and eager black eyes, and was thin, and had a scar upon her lip. it was an old scar  i should rather call it seam, for it was not discoloured, and had healed years ago  which had once cut through her mouth, downward towards the chin, but was now barely visible across the table, except above and on her upper lip, the shape of which it had altered. i concluded in my own mind that she was about thirty years of age, and that she wished to be married. she was a little dilapidated  like a house  with having been so long to let yet had, as i have said, an appearance of good looks. her thinness seemed to be the effect of some wasting fire within her, which found a vent in her gaunt eyes.

she was introduced as miss dartle, and both steerforth and his mother called her rosa. i found that she lived there, and had been for a long time mrs. steerforths companion. it appeared to me that she never said anything she wanted to say, outright but hinted it, and made a great deal more of it by this practice. for example, when mrs. steerforth observed, more in jest than earnest, that she feared her son led but a wild life at college, miss dartle put in thus oh, really you know how ignorant i am, and that i only ask for information, but isnt it always so i thought that kind of life was on all hands understood to be  eh

it is education for a very grave profession, if you mean that, rosa, mrs. steerforth answered with some coldness.

oh yes thats very true, returned miss dartle. but isnt it, though  i want to be put right, if i am wrong  isnt it, really

really what said mrs. steerforth.

oh you mean its not returned miss dartle. well, im very glad to hear it now, i know what to do thats the advantage of asking. i shall never allow people to talk before me about wastefulness and profligacy, and so forth, in connexion with that life, any more.

and you will be right, said mrs. steerforth. my sons tutor is a conscientious gentleman and if i had not implicit reliance on my son, i should have reliance on him.

should you said miss dartle. dear me conscientious, is he

really conscientious, now

yes, i am convinced of it, said mrs. steerforth.

how very nice exclaimed miss dartle. what a comfort really conscientious then hes not  but of course he cant be, if hes really conscientious. well, i shall be quite happy in my opinion of him, from this time. you cant think how it elevates him in my opinion, to know for certain that hes really conscientious

her own views of every question, and her correction of everything that was said to which she was opposed, miss dartle insinuated in the same way sometimes, i could not conceal from myself, with great power, though in contradiction even of steerforth. an instance happened before dinner was done. mrs. steerforth speaking to me about my intention of going down into suffolk, i said at hazard how glad i should be, if steerforth would only go there with me and explaining to him that i was going to see my old nurse, and mr. peggottys family, i reminded him of the boatman whom he had seen at school.

oh that bluff fellow said steerforth. he had a son with him, hadnt he

no. that was his nephew, i replied whom he adopted, though, as a son. he has a very pretty little niece too, whom he adopted as a daughter. in short, his house  or rather his boat, for he lives in one, on dry land  is full of people who are objects of his generosity and kindness. you would be delighted to see that household.

should i said steerforth. well, i think i should. i must see what can be done. it would be worth a journey not to mention the pleasure of a journey with you, daisy, to see that sort of people together, and to make one of em.

my heart leaped with a new hope of pleasure. but it was in reference to the tone in which he had spoken of that sort of people, that miss dartle, whose sparkling eyes had been watchful of us, now broke in again.

oh, but, really do tell me. are they, though she said.

are they what and are who what said steerforth.

that sort of people.  are they really animals and clods, and beings of another order i want to know so much.

why, theres a pretty wide separation between them and us, said steerforth, with indifference. they are not to be expected to be as sensitive as we are. their delicacy is not to be shocked, or hurt easily. they are wonderfully virtuous, i dare say  some people contend for that, at least and i am sure i dont want to contradict them  but they have not very fine natures, and they may be thankful that, like their coarse rough skins, they are not easily wounded.

really said miss dartle. well, i dont know, now, when i have been better pleased than to hear that. its so consoling its such a delight to know that, when they suffer, they dont feel

sometimes i have been quite uneasy for that sort of people but now i shall just dismiss the idea of them, altogether. live and learn.

i had my doubts, i confess, but now theyre cleared up. i didnt know, and now i do know, and that shows the advantage of asking  dont it

i believed that steerforth had said what he had, in jest, or to draw miss dartle out and i expected him to say as much when she was gone, and we two were sitting before the fire. but he merely asked me what i thought of her.

she is very clever, is she not i asked.

clever she brings everything to a grindstone, said steerforth, and sharpens it, as she has sharpened her own face and figure these years past. she has worn herself away by constant sharpening. she is all edge.

what a remarkable scar that is upon her lip i said.

steerforths face fell, and he paused a moment.

why, the fact is, he returned, i did that.

by an unfortunate accident

no. i was a young boy, and she exasperated me, and i threw a hammer at her. a promising young angel i must have been

i was deeply sorry to have touched on such a painful theme, but that was useless now.

she has borne the mark ever since, as you see, said steerforth and shell bear it to her grave, if she ever rests in one  though i can hardly believe she will ever rest anywhere. she was the motherless child of a sort of cousin of my fathers. he died one day. my mother, who was then a widow, brought her here to be company to her. she has a couple of thousand pounds of her own, and saves the interest of it every year, to add to the principal.

theres the history of miss rosa dartle for you.

and i have no doubt she loves you like a brother said i.

humph retorted steerforth, looking at the fire. some brothers are not loved over much and some love  but help yourself, copperfield well drink the daisies of the field, in compliment to you and the lilies of the valley that toil not, neither do they spin, in compliment to me  the more shame for me a moody smile that had overspread his features cleared off as he said this merrily, and he was his own frank, winning self again.

i could not help glancing at the scar with a painful interest when we went in to tea. it was not long before i observed that it was the most susceptible part of her face, and that, when she turned pale, that mark altered first, and became a dull, leadcoloured streak, lengthening out to its full extent, like a mark in invisible ink brought to the fire. there was a little altercation between her and steerforth about a cast of the dice at back gammon  when i thought her, for one moment, in a storm of rage and then i saw it start forth like the old writing on the wall.

it was no matter of wonder to me to find mrs. steerforth devoted to her son. she seemed to be able to speak or think about nothing else. she showed me his picture as an infant, in a locket, with some of his babyhair in it she showed me his picture as he had been when i first knew him and she wore at her breast his picture as he was now. all the letters he had ever written to her, she kept in a cabinet near her own chair by the fire and she would have read me some of them, and i should have been very glad to hear them too, if he had not interposed, and coaxed her out of the design.

it was at mr. creakles, my son tells me, that you first became acquainted, said mrs. steerforth, as she and i were talking at one table, while they played backgammon at another. indeed, i recollect his speaking, at that time, of a pupil younger than himself who had taken his fancy there but your name, as you may suppose, has not lived in my memory.

he was very generous and noble to me in those days, i assure you, maam, said i, and i stood in need of such a friend. i should have been quite crushed without him.

he is always generous and noble, said mrs. steerforth, proudly.

i subscribed to this with all my heart, god knows. she knew i did for the stateliness of her manner already abated towards me, except when she spoke in praise of him, and then her air was always lofty.

it was not a fit school generally for my son, said she far from it but there were particular circumstances to be considered at the time, of more importance even than that selection. my sons high spirit made it desirable that he should be placed with some man who felt its superiority, and would be content to bow himself before it and we found such a man there.

i knew that, knowing the fellow. and yet i did not despise him the more for it, but thought it a redeeming quality in him if he could be allowed any grace for not resisting one so irresistible as steerforth.

my sons great capacity was tempted on, there, by a feeling of voluntary emulation and conscious pride, the fond lady went on to say. he would have risen against all constraint but he found himself the monarch of the place, and he haughtily determined to be worthy of his station. it was like himself.

i echoed, with all my heart and soul, that it was like himself.

so my son took, of his own will, and on no compulsion, to the course in which he can always, when it is his pleasure, outstrip every competitor, she pursued. my son informs me, mr.

copperfield, that you were quite devoted to him, and that when you met yesterday you made yourself known to him with tears of joy. i should be an affected woman if i made any pretence of being surprised by my sons inspiring such emotions but i cannot be indifferent to anyone who is so sensible of his merit, and i am very glad to see you here, and can assure you that he feels an unusual friendship for you, and that you may rely on his protection.

miss dartle played backgammon as eagerly as she did everything else. if i had seen her, first, at the board, i should have fancied that her figure had got thin, and her eyes had got large, over that pursuit, and no other in the world. but i am very much mistaken if she missed a word of this, or lost a look of mine as i received it with the utmost pleasure, and honoured by mrs.

steerforths confidence, felt older than i had done since i left canterbury.

when the evening was pretty far spent, and a tray of glasses and decanters came in, steerforth promised, over the fire, that he would seriously think of going down into the country with me.

there was no hurry, he said a week hence would do and his mother hospitably said the same. while we were talking, he more than once called me daisy which brought miss dartle out again.

but really, mr. copperfield, she asked, is it a nickname and why does he give it you is it  eh  because he thinks you young and innocent i am so stupid in these things.

i coloured in replying that i believed it was.

oh said miss dartle. now i am glad to know that i ask for information, and i am glad to know it. he thinks you young and innocent and so you are his friend. well, thats quite delightful

she went to bed soon after this, and mrs. steerforth retired too.

steerforth and i, after lingering for halfanhour over the fire, talking about traddles and all the rest of them at old salem house, went upstairs together. steerforths room was next to mine, and i went in to look at it. it was a picture of comfort, full of easychairs, cushions and footstools, worked by his mothers hand, and with no sort of thing omitted that could help to render it complete. finally, her handsome features looked down on her darling from a portrait on the wall, as if it were even something to her that her likeness should watch him while he slept.

i found the fire burning clear enough in my room by this time, and the curtains drawn before the windows and round the bed, giving it a very snug appearance. i sat down in a great chair upon the hearth to meditate on my happiness and had enjoyed the contemplation of it for some time, when i found a likeness of miss dartle looking eagerly at me from above the chimneypiece.

it was a startling likeness, and necessarily had a startling look.

the painter hadnt made the scar, but i made it and there it was, coming and going now confined to the upper lip as i had seen it at dinner, and now showing the whole extent of the wound inflicted by the hammer, as i had seen it when she was passionate.

i wondered peevishly why they couldnt put her anywhere else instead of quartering her on me. to get rid of her, i undressed quickly, extinguished my light, and went to bed. but, as i fell asleep, i could not forget that she was still there looking, is it really, though i want to know and when i awoke in the night, i found that i was uneasily asking all sorts of people in my dreams whether it really was or not  without knowing what i meant.



chapter 

little emly

there was a servant in that house, a man who, i understood, was usually with steerforth, and had come into his service at the university, who was in appearance a pattern of respectability. i believe there never existed in his station a more respectablelooking man. he was taciturn, softfooted, very quiet in his manner, deferential, observant, always at hand when wanted, and never near when not wanted but his great claim to consideration was his respectability. he had not a pliant face, he had rather a stiff neck, rather a tight smooth head with short hair clinging to it at the sides, a soft way of speaking, with a peculiar habit of whispering the letter s so distinctly, that he seemed to use it oftener than any other man but every peculiarity that he had he made respectable. if his nose had been upsidedown, he would have made that respectable. he surrounded himself with an atmosphere of respectability, and walked secure in it. it would have been next to impossible to suspect him of anything wrong, he was so thoroughly respectable. nobody could have thought of putting him in a livery, he was so highly respectable. to have imposed any derogatory work upon him, would have been to inflict a wanton insult on the feelings of a most respectable man. and of this, i noticed the womenservants in the household were so intuitively conscious, that they always did such work themselves, and generally while he read the paper by the pantry fire.

such a selfcontained man i never saw. but in that quality, as in every other he possessed, he only seemed to be the more respectable. even the fact that no one knew his christian name, seemed to form a part of his respectability. nothing could be objected against his surname, littimer, by which he was known.

peter might have been hanged, or tom transported but littimer was perfectly respectable.

it was occasioned, i suppose, by the reverend nature of respectability in the abstract, but i felt particularly young in this mans presence. how old he was himself, i could not guess  and that again went to his credit on the same score for in the calmness of respectability he might have numbered fifty years as well as thirty.

littimer was in my room in the morning before i was up, to bring me that reproachful shavingwater, and to put out my clothes. when i undrew the curtains and looked out of bed, i saw him, in an equable temperature of respectability, unaffected by the east wind of january, and not even breathing frostily, standing my boots right and left in the first dancing position, and blowing specks of dust off my coat as he laid it down like a baby.

i gave him good morning, and asked him what oclock it was. he took out of his pocket the most respectable huntingwatch i ever saw, and preventing the spring with his thumb from opening far, looked in at the face as if he were consulting an oracular oyster, shut it up again, and said, if i pleased, it was half past eight.

mr. steerforth will be glad to hear how you have rested, sir.

thank you, said i, very well indeed. is mr. steerforth quite well

thank you, sir, mr. steerforth is tolerably well. another of his characteristics  no use of superlatives. a cool calm medium always.

is there anything more i can have the honour of doing for you, sir the warningbell will ring at nine the family take breakfast at half past nine.

nothing, i thank you.

i thank you, sir, if you please and with that, and with a little inclination of his head when he passed the bedside, as an apology for correcting me, he went out, shutting the door as delicately as if i had just fallen into a sweet sleep on which my life depended.

every morning we held exactly this conversation never any more, and never any less and yet, invariably, however far i might have been lifted out of myself overnight, and advanced towards maturer years, by steerforths companionship, or mrs. steerforths confidence, or miss dartles conversation, in the presence of this most respectable man i became, as our smaller poets sing, a boy again.

he got horses for us and steerforth, who knew everything, gave me lessons in riding. he provided foils for us, and steerforth gave me lessons in fencing  gloves, and i began, of the same master, to improve in boxing. it gave me no manner of concern that steerforth should find me a novice in these sciences, but i never could bear to show my want of skill before the respectable littimer. i had no reason to believe that littimer understood such arts himself he never led me to suppose anything of the kind, by so much as the vibration of one of his respectable eyelashes yet whenever he was by, while we were practising, i felt myself the greenest and most inexperienced of mortals.

i am particular about this man, because he made a particular effect on me at that time, and because of what took place thereafter.

the week passed away in a most delightful manner. it passed rapidly, as may be supposed, to one entranced as i was and yet it gave me so many occasions for knowing steerforth better, and admiring him more in a thousand respects, that at its close i seemed to have been with him for a much longer time. a dashing way he had of treating me like a plaything, was more agreeable to me than any behaviour he could have adopted. it reminded me of our old acquaintance it seemed the natural sequel of it it showed me that he was unchanged it relieved me of any uneasiness i might have felt, in comparing my merits with his, and measuring my claims upon his friendship by any equal standard above all, it was a familiar, unrestrained, affectionate demeanour that he used towards no one else. as he had treated me at school differently from all the rest, i joyfully believed that he treated me in life unlike any other friend he had. i believed that i was nearer to his heart than any other friend, and my own heart warmed with attachment to him.

he made up his mind to go with me into the country, and the day arrived for our departure. he had been doubtful at first whether to take littimer or not, but decided to leave him at home. the respectable creature, satisfied with his lot whatever it was, arranged our portmanteaux on the little carriage that was to take us into london, as if they were intended to defy the shocks of ages, and received my modestly proffered donation with perfect tranquillity.

we bade adieu to mrs. steerforth and miss dartle, with many thanks on my part, and much kindness on the devoted mothers. the last thing i saw was littimers unruffled eye fraught, as i fancied, with the silent conviction that i was very young indeed.

what i felt, in returning so auspiciously to the old familiar places, i shall not endeavour to describe. we went down by the mail. i was so concerned, i recollect, even for the honour of yarmouth, that when steerforth said, as we drove through its dark streets to the inn, that, as well as he could make out, it was a good, queer, outoftheway kind of hole, i was highly pleased. we went to bed on our arrival i observed a pair of dirty shoes and gaiters in connexion with my old friend the dolphin as we passed that door, and breakfasted late in the morning. steerforth, who was in great spirits, had been strolling about the beach before i was up, and had made acquaintance, he said, with half the boatmen in the place. moreover, he had seen, in the distance, what he was sure must be the identical house of mr. peggotty, with smoke coming out of the chimney and had had a great mind, he told me, to walk in and swear he was myself grown out of knowledge.

when do you propose to introduce me there, daisy he said. i am at your disposal. make your own arrangements.

why, i was thinking that this evening would be a good time, steerforth, when they are all sitting round the fire. i should like you to see it when its snug, its such a curious place.

so be it returned steerforth. this evening.

i shall not give them any notice that we are here, you know, said i, delighted. we must take them by surprise.

oh, of course its no fun, said steerforth, unless we take them by surprise. let us see the natives in their aboriginal condition.

though they are that sort of people that you mentioned, i returned.

aha what you recollect my skirmishes with rosa, do you he exclaimed with a quick look. confound the girl, i am half afraid of her. shes like a goblin to me. but never mind her. now what are you going to do you are going to see your nurse, i suppose

why, yes, i said, i must see peggotty first of all.

well, replied steerforth, looking at his watch. suppose i deliver you up to be cried over for a couple of hours. is that long enough

i answered, laughing, that i thought we might get through it in that time, but that he must come also for he would find that his renown had preceded him, and that he was almost as great a personage as i was.

ill come anywhere you like, said steerforth, or do anything you like. tell me where to come to and in two hours ill produce myself in any state you please, sentimental or comical.

i gave him minute directions for finding the residence of mr.

barkis, carrier to blunderstone and elsewhere and, on this understanding, went out alone. there was a sharp bracing air the ground was dry the sea was crisp and clear the sun was diffusing abundance of light, if not much warmth and everything was fresh and lively. i was so fresh and lively myself, in the pleasure of being there, that i could have stopped the people in the streets and shaken hands with them.

the streets looked small, of course. the streets that we have only seen as children always do, i believe, when we go back to them.

but i had forgotten nothing in them, and found nothing changed, until i came to mr. omers shop. omer and joram was now written up, where omer used to be but the inscription, draper, tailor, haberdasher, funeral furnisher, ampc., remained as it was.

my footsteps seemed to tend so naturally to the shop door, after i had read these words from over the way, that i went across the road and looked in. there was a pretty woman at the back of the shop, dancing a little child in her arms, while another little fellow clung to her apron. i had no difficulty in recognizing either minnie or minnies children. the glass door of the parlour was not open but in the workshop across the yard i could faintly hear the old tune playing, as if it had never left off.

is mr. omer at home said i, entering. i should like to see him, for a moment, if he is.

oh yes, sir, he is at home, said minnie the weather dont suit his asthma out of doors. joe, call your grandfather

the little fellow, who was holding her apron, gave such a lusty shout, that the sound of it made him bashful, and he buried his face in her skirts, to her great admiration. i heard a heavy puffing and blowing coming towards us, and soon mr. omer, shorterwinded than of yore, but not much olderlooking, stood before me.

servant, sir, said mr. omer. what can i do for you, sir

you can shake hands with me, mr. omer, if you please, said i, putting out my own. you were very goodnatured to me once, when i am afraid i didnt show that i thought so.

was i though returned the old man. im glad to hear it, but i dont remember when. are you sure it was me

quite.

i think my memory has got as short as my breath, said mr. omer, looking at me and shaking his head for i dont remember you.

dont you remember your coming to the coach to meet me, and my having breakfast here, and our riding out to blunderstone together you, and i, and mrs. joram, and mr. joram too  who wasnt her husband then

why, lord bless my soul exclaimed mr. omer, after being thrown by his surprise into a fit of coughing, you dont say so minnie, my dear, you recollect dear me, yes the party was a lady, i think

my mother, i rejoined.

to  be  sure, said mr. omer, touching my waistcoat with his forefinger, and there was a little child too there was two parties. the little party was laid along with the other party.

over at blunderstone it was, of course. dear me and how have you been since

very well, i thanked him, as i hoped he had been too.

oh nothing to grumble at, you know, said mr. omer. i find my breath gets short, but it seldom gets longer as a man gets older.

i take it as it comes, and make the most of it. thats the best way, aint it

mr. omer coughed again, in consequence of laughing, and was assisted out of his fit by his daughter, who now stood close beside us, dancing her smallest child on the counter.

dear me said mr. omer. yes, to be sure. two parties why, in that very ride, if youll believe me, the day was named for my minnie to marry joram. do name it, sir, says joram. yes, do, father, says minnie. and now hes come into the business. and look here the youngest

minnie laughed, and stroked her banded hair upon her temples, as her father put one of his fat fingers into the hand of the child she was dancing on the counter.

two parties, of course said mr. omer, nodding his head retrospectively. exactly so and jorams at work, at this minute, on a grey one with silver nails, not this measurement  the measurement of the dancing child upon the counter  by a good two inches.  will you take something

i thanked him, but declined.

let me see, said mr. omer. barkiss the carriers wife  peggottys the boatmans sister  she had something to do with your family she was in service there, sure

my answering in the affirmative gave him great satisfaction.

i believe my breath will get long next, my memorys getting so much so, said mr. omer. well, sir, weve got a young relation of hers here, under articles to us, that has as elegant a taste in the dressmaking business  i assure you i dont believe theres a duchess in england can touch her.

not little emly said i, involuntarily.

emlys her name, said mr. omer, and shes little too. but if youll believe me, she has such a face of her own that half the women in this town are mad against her.

nonsense, father cried minnie.

my dear, said mr. omer, i dont say its the case with you, winking at me, but i say that half the women in yarmouth  ah and in five mile round  are mad against that girl.

then she should have kept to her own station in life, father, said minnie, and not have given them any hold to talk about her, and then they couldnt have done it.

couldnt have done it, my dear retorted mr. omer. couldnt have done it is that your knowledge of life what is there that any woman couldnt do, that she shouldnt do  especially on the subject of another womans good looks

i really thought it was all over with mr. omer, after he had uttered this libellous pleasantry. he coughed to that extent, and his breath eluded all his attempts to recover it with that obstinacy, that i fully expected to see his head go down behind the counter, and his little black breeches, with the rusty little bunches of ribbons at the knees, come quivering up in a last ineffectual struggle. at length, however, he got better, though he still panted hard, and was so exhausted that he was obliged to sit on the stool of the shopdesk.

you see, he said, wiping his head, and breathing with difficulty, she hasnt taken much to any companions here she hasnt taken kindly to any particular acquaintances and friends, not to mention sweethearts. in consequence, an illnatured story got about, that emly wanted to be a lady. now my opinion is, that it came into circulation principally on account of her sometimes saying, at the school, that if she was a lady she would like to do soandso for her uncle  dont you see  and buy him suchandsuch fine things.

i assure you, mr. omer, she has said so to me, i returned eagerly, when we were both children.

mr. omer nodded his head and rubbed his chin. just so. then out of a very little, she could dress herself, you see, better than most others could out of a deal, and that made things unpleasant.

moreover, she was rather what might be called wayward  ill go so far as to say what i should call wayward myself, said mr. omer didnt know her own mind quite  a little spoiled  and couldnt, at first, exactly bind herself down. no more than that was ever said against her, minnie

no, father, said mrs. joram. thats the worst, i believe.

so when she got a situation, said mr. omer, to keep a fractious old lady company, they didnt very well agree, and she didnt stop.

at last she came here, apprenticed for three years. nearly two of em are over, and she has been as good a girl as ever was. worth any six minnie, is she worth any six, now

yes, father, replied minnie. never say i detracted from her

very good, said mr. omer. thats right. and so, young gentleman, he added, after a few moments further rubbing of his chin, that you may not consider me longwinded as well as shortbreathed, i believe thats all about it.

as they had spoken in a subdued tone, while speaking of emly, i had no doubt that she was near. on my asking now, if that were not so, mr. omer nodded yes, and nodded towards the door of the parlour. my hurried inquiry if i might peep in, was answered with a free permission and, looking through the glass, i saw her sitting at her work. i saw her, a most beautiful little creature, with the cloudless blue eyes, that had looked into my childish heart, turned laughingly upon another child of minnies who was playing near her with enough of wilfulness in her bright face to justify what i had heard with much of the old capricious coyness lurking in it but with nothing in her pretty looks, i am sure, but what was meant for goodness and for happiness, and what was on a good and happy course.

the tune across the yard that seemed as if it never had left off  alas it was the tune that never does leave off  was beating, softly, all the while.

wouldnt you like to step in, said mr. omer, and speak to her

walk in and speak to her, sir make yourself at home

i was too bashful to do so then  i was afraid of confusing her, and i was no less afraid of confusing myself. but i informed myself of the hour at which she left of an evening, in order that our visit might be timed accordingly and taking leave of mr. omer, and his pretty daughter, and her little children, went away to my dear old peggottys.

here she was, in the tiled kitchen, cooking dinner the moment i knocked at the door she opened it, and asked me what i pleased to want. i looked at her with a smile, but she gave me no smile in return. i had never ceased to write to her, but it must have been seven years since we had met.

is mr. barkis at home, maam i said, feigning to speak roughly to her.

hes at home, sir, returned peggotty, but hes bad abed with the rheumatics.

dont he go over to blunderstone now i asked.

when hes well he do, she answered.

do you ever go there, mrs. barkis

she looked at me more attentively, and i noticed a quick movement of her hands towards each other.

because i want to ask a question about a house there, that they call the  what is it  the rookery, said i.

she took a step backward, and put out her hands in an undecided frightened way, as if to keep me off.

peggotty i cried to her.

she cried, my darling boy and we both burst into tears, and were locked in one anothers arms.

what extravagances she committed what laughing and crying over me what pride she showed, what joy, what sorrow that she whose pride and joy i might have been, could never hold me in a fond embrace

i have not the heart to tell. i was troubled with no misgiving that it was young in me to respond to her emotions. i had never laughed and cried in all my life, i dare say  not even to her  more freely than i did that morning.

barkis will be so glad, said peggotty, wiping her eyes with her apron, that itll do him more good than pints of liniment. may i go and tell him you are here will you come up and see him, my dear

of course i would. but peggotty could not get out of the room as easily as she meant to, for as often as she got to the door and looked round at me, she came back again to have another laugh and another cry upon my shoulder. at last, to make the matter easier, i went upstairs with her and having waited outside for a minute, while she said a word of preparation to mr. barkis, presented myself before that invalid.

he received me with absolute enthusiasm. he was too rheumatic to be shaken hands with, but he begged me to shake the tassel on the top of his nightcap, which i did most cordially. when i sat down by the side of the bed, he said that it did him a world of good to feel as if he was driving me on the blunderstone road again. as he lay in bed, face upward, and so covered, with that exception, that he seemed to be nothing but a face  like a conventional cherubim  he looked the queerest object i ever beheld.

what name was it, as i wrote up in the cart, sir said mr.

barkis, with a slow rheumatic smile.

ah mr. barkis, we had some grave talks about that matter, hadnt we

i was willin a long time, sir said mr. barkis.

a long time, said i.

and i dont regret it, said mr. barkis. do you remember what you told me once, about her making all the apple parsties and doing all the cooking

yes, very well, i returned.

it was as true, said mr. barkis, as turnips is. it was as true, said mr. barkis, nodding his nightcap, which was his only means of emphasis, as taxes is. and nothings truer than them.

mr. barkis turned his eyes upon me, as if for my assent to this result of his reflections in bed and i gave it.

nothings truer than them, repeated mr. barkis a man as poor as i am, finds that out in his mind when hes laid up. im a very poor man, sir

i am sorry to hear it, mr. barkis.

a very poor man, indeed i am, said mr. barkis.

here his right hand came slowly and feebly from under the bedclothes, and with a purposeless uncertain grasp took hold of a stick which was loosely tied to the side of the bed. after some poking about with this instrument, in the course of which his face assumed a variety of distracted expressions, mr. barkis poked it against a box, an end of which had been visible to me all the time.

then his face became composed.

old clothes, said mr. barkis.

oh said i.

i wish it was money, sir, said mr. barkis.

i wish it was, indeed, said i.

but it aint, said mr. barkis, opening both his eyes as wide as he possibly could.

i expressed myself quite sure of that, and mr. barkis, turning his eyes more gently to his wife, said shes the usefullest and best of women, c. p. barkis. all the praise that anyone can give to c. p. barkis, she deserves, and more my dear, youll get a dinner today, for company something good to eat and drink, will you

i should have protested against this unnecessary demonstration in my honour, but that i saw peggotty, on the opposite side of the bed, extremely anxious i should not. so i held my peace.

i have got a trifle of money somewhere about me, my dear, said mr. barkis, but im a little tired. if you and mr. david will leave me for a short nap, ill try and find it when i wake.

we left the room, in compliance with this request. when we got outside the door, peggotty informed me that mr. barkis, being now a little nearer than he used to be, always resorted to this same device before producing a single coin from his store and that he endured unheardof agonies in crawling out of bed alone, and taking it from that unlucky box. in effect, we presently heard him uttering suppressed groans of the most dismal nature, as this magpie proceeding racked him in every joint but while peggottys eyes were full of compassion for him, she said his generous impulse would do him good, and it was better not to check it. so he groaned on, until he had got into bed again, suffering, i have no doubt, a martyrdom and then called us in, pretending to have just woke up from a refreshing sleep, and to produce a guinea from under his pillow. his satisfaction in which happy imposition on us, and in having preserved the impenetrable secret of the box, appeared to be a sufficient compensation to him for all his tortures.

i prepared peggotty for steerforths arrival and it was not long before he came. i am persuaded she knew no difference between his having been a personal benefactor of hers, and a kind friend to me, and that she would have received him with the utmost gratitude and devotion in any case. but his easy, spirited good humour his genial manner, his handsome looks, his natural gift of adapting himself to whomsoever he pleased, and making direct, when he cared to do it, to the main point of interest in anybodys heart bound her to him wholly in five minutes. his manner to me, alone, would have won her. but, through all these causes combined, i sincerely believe she had a kind of adoration for him before he left the house that night.

he stayed there with me to dinner  if i were to say willingly, i should not half express how readily and gaily. he went into mr.

barkiss room like light and air, brightening and refreshing it as if he were healthy weather. there was no noise, no effort, no consciousness, in anything he did but in everything an indescribable lightness, a seeming impossibility of doing anything else, or doing anything better, which was so graceful, so natural, and agreeable, that it overcomes me, even now, in the remembrance.

we made merry in the little parlour, where the book of martyrs, unthumbed since my time, was laid out upon the desk as of old, and where i now turned over its terrific pictures, remembering the old sensations they had awakened, but not feeling them. when peggotty spoke of what she called my room, and of its being ready for me at night, and of her hoping i would occupy it, before i could so much as look at steerforth, hesitating, he was possessed of the whole case.

of course, he said. youll sleep here, while we stay, and i shall sleep at the hotel.

but to bring you so far, i returned, and to separate, seems bad companionship, steerforth.

why, in the name of heaven, where do you naturally belong he said. what is seems, compared to that it was settled at once.

he maintained all his delightful qualities to the last, until we started forth, at eight oclock, for mr. peggottys boat. indeed, they were more and more brightly exhibited as the hours went on for i thought even then, and i have no doubt now, that the consciousness of success in his determination to please, inspired him with a new delicacy of perception, and made it, subtle as it was, more easy to him. if anyone had told me, then, that all this was a brilliant game, played for the excitement of the moment, for the employment of high spirits, in the thoughtless love of superiority, in a mere wasteful careless course of winning what was worthless to him, and next minute thrown away  i say, if anyone had told me such a lie that night, i wonder in what manner of receiving it my indignation would have found a vent probably only in an increase, had that been possible, of the romantic feelings of fidelity and friendship with which i walked beside him, over the dark wintry sands towards the old boat the wind sighing around us even more mournfully, than it had sighed and moaned upon the night when i first darkened mr. peggottys door.

this is a wild kind of place, steerforth, is it not

dismal enough in the dark, he said and the sea roars as if it were hungry for us. is that the boat, where i see a light yonder

thats the boat, said i.

and its the same i saw this morning, he returned. i came straight to it, by instinct, i suppose.

we said no more as we approached the light, but made softly for the door. i laid my hand upon the latch and whispering steerforth to keep close to me, went in.

a murmur of voices had been audible on the outside, and, at the moment of our entrance, a clapping of hands which latter noise, i was surprised to see, proceeded from the generally disconsolate mrs. gummidge. but mrs. gummidge was not the only person there who was unusually excited. mr. peggotty, his face lighted up with uncommon satisfaction, and laughing with all his might, held his rough arms wide open, as if for little emly to run into them ham, with a mixed expression in his face of admiration, exultation, and a lumbering sort of bashfulness that sat upon him very well, held little emly by the hand, as if he were presenting her to mr.

peggotty little emly herself, blushing and shy, but delighted with mr. peggottys delight, as her joyous eyes expressed, was stopped by our entrance for she saw us first in the very act of springing from ham to nestle in mr. peggottys embrace. in the first glimpse we had of them all, and at the moment of our passing from the dark cold night into the warm light room, this was the way in which they were all employed mrs. gummidge in the background, clapping her hands like a madwoman.

the little picture was so instantaneously dissolved by our going in, that one might have doubted whether it had ever been. i was in the midst of the astonished family, face to face with mr. peggotty, and holding out my hand to him, when ham shouted masr davy its masr davy

in a moment we were all shaking hands with one another, and asking one another how we did, and telling one another how glad we were to meet, and all talking at once. mr. peggotty was so proud and overjoyed to see us, that he did not know what to say or do, but kept over and over again shaking hands with me, and then with steerforth, and then with me, and then ruffling his shaggy hair all over his head, and laughing with such glee and triumph, that it was a treat to see him.

why, that you two gentlmen  gentlmen growed  should come to this here roof tonight, of all nights in my life, said mr.

peggotty, is such a thing as never happened afore, i do rightly believe emly, my darling, come here come here, my little witch theres masr davys friend, my dear theres the gentlman as youve heerd on, emly. he comes to see you, along with masr davy, on the brightest night of your uncles life as ever was or will be, gorm the tother one, and horroar for it

after delivering this speech all in a breath, and with extraordinary animation and pleasure, mr. peggotty put one of his large hands rapturously on each side of his nieces face, and kissing it a dozen times, laid it with a gentle pride and love upon his broad chest, and patted it as if his hand had been a ladys.

then he let her go and as she ran into the little chamber where i used to sleep, looked round upon us, quite hot and out of breath with his uncommon satisfaction.

if you two gentlmen  gentlmen growed now, and such gentlmen  said mr. peggotty.

so th are, so th are cried ham. well said so th are.

masr davy bor  gentlmen growed  so th are

if you two gentlmen, gentlmen growed, said mr. peggotty, dont excuse me for being in a state of mind, when you understand matters, ill arks your pardon. emly, my dear  she knows im a going to tell, here his delight broke out again, and has made off. would you be so good as look arter her, mawther, for a minute

mrs. gummidge nodded and disappeared.

if this aint, said mr. peggotty, sitting down among us by the fire, the brightest night o my life, im a shellfish  biled too  and more i cant say. this here little emly, sir, in a low voice to steerforth,  her as you see a blushing here just now 

steerforth only nodded but with such a pleased expression of interest, and of participation in mr. peggottys feelings, that the latter answered him as if he had spoken.

to be sure, said mr. peggotty. thats her, and so she is.

thankee, sir.

ham nodded to me several times, as if he would have said so too.

this here little emly of ours, said mr. peggotty, has been, in our house, what i suppose im a ignorant man, but thats my belief no one but a little brighteyed creetur can be in a house.

she aint my child i never had one but i couldnt love her more.

you understand i couldnt do it

i quite understand, said steerforth.

i know you do, sir, returned mr. peggotty, and thankee again.

masr davy, he can remember what she was you may judge for your own self what she is but neither of you cant fully know what she has been, is, and will be, to my loving art. i am rough, sir, said mr. peggotty, i am as rough as a sea porkypine but no one, unless, mayhap, it is a woman, can know, i think, what our little emly is to me. and betwixt ourselves, sinking his voice lower yet, that womans name aint missis gummidge neither, though she has a world of merits.

mr. peggotty ruffled his hair again, with both hands, as a further preparation for what he was going to say, and went on, with a hand upon each of his knees there was a certain person as had knowd our emly, from the time when her father was drownded as had seen her constant when a babby, when a young gal, when a woman. not much of a person to look at, he warnt, said mr. peggotty, something o my own build  rough  a good deal o the souwester in him  wery salt  but, on the whole, a honest sort of a chap, with his art in the right place.

i thought i had never seen ham grin to anything like the extent to which he sat grinning at us now.

what does this here blessed tarpaulin go and do, said mr.

peggotty, with his face one high noon of enjoyment, but he loses that there art of his to our little emly. he follers her about, he makes hisself a sort o servant to her, he loses in a great measure his relish for his wittles, and in the longrun he makes it clear to me wots amiss. now i could wish myself, you see, that our little emly was in a fair way of being married. i could wish to see her, at all ewents, under articles to a honest man as had a right to defend her. i dont know how long i may live, or how soon i may die but i know that if i was capsized, any night, in a gale of wind in yarmouth roads here, and was to see the townlights shining for the last time over the rollers as i couldnt make no head against, i could go down quieter for thinking theres a man ashore there, irontrue to my little emly, god bless her, and no wrong can touch my emly while so be as that man lives.

mr. peggotty, in simple earnestness, waved his right arm, as if he were waving it at the townlights for the last time, and then, exchanging a nod with ham, whose eye he caught, proceeded as before.

well i counsels him to speak to emly. hes big enough, but hes bashfuller than a little un, and he dont like. so i speak.

what him says emly. him that ive knowd so intimate so many years, and like so much. oh, uncle i never can have him.

hes such a good fellow i gives her a kiss, and i says no more to her than, my dear, youre right to speak out, youre to choose for yourself, youre as free as a little bird. then i aways to him, and i says, i wish it could have been so, but it cant. but you can both be as you was, and wot i say to you is, be as you was with her, like a man. he says to me, ashaking of my hand, i will he says. and he was  honourable and manful  for two year going on, and we was just the same at home here as afore.

mr. peggottys face, which had varied in its expression with the various stages of his narrative, now resumed all its former triumphant delight, as he laid a hand upon my knee and a hand upon steerforths previously wetting them both, for the greater emphasis of the action, and divided the following speech between us all of a sudden, one evening  as it might be tonight  comes little emly from her work, and him with her there aint so much in that, youll say. no, because he takes care on her, like a brother, arter dark, and indeed afore dark, and at all times. but this tarpaulin chap, he takes hold of her hand, and he cries out to me, joyful, look here this is to be my little wife and she says, half bold and half shy, and half a laughing and half a crying, yes, uncle if you please.  if i please cried mr.

peggotty, rolling his head in an ecstasy at the idea lord, as if i should do anythink else  if you please, i am steadier now, and i have thought better of it, and ill be as good a little wife as i can to him, for hes a dear, good fellow then missis gummidge, she claps her hands like a play, and you come in. theer the murders out said mr. peggotty  you come in it took place this here present hour and heres the man thatll marry her, the minute shes out of her time.

ham staggered, as well he might, under the blow mr. peggotty dealt him in his unbounded joy, as a mark of confidence and friendship but feeling called upon to say something to us, he said, with much faltering and great difficulty she warnt no higher than you was, masr davy  when you first come  when i thought what shed grow up to be. i see her grown up  gentlmen  like a flower. id lay down my life for her  masr davy  oh most content and cheerful shes more to me  gentlmen  than  shes all to me that ever i can want, and more than ever i  than ever i could say. i  i love her true. there aint a gentlman in all the land  nor yet sailing upon all the sea  that can love his lady more than i love her, though theres many a common man  would say better  what he meant.

i thought it affecting to see such a sturdy fellow as ham was now, trembling in the strength of what he felt for the pretty little creature who had won his heart. i thought the simple confidence reposed in us by mr. peggotty and by himself, was, in itself, affecting. i was affected by the story altogether. how far my emotions were influenced by the recollections of my childhood, i dont know. whether i had come there with any lingering fancy that i was still to love little emly, i dont know. i know that i was filled with pleasure by all this but, at first, with an indescribably sensitive pleasure, that a very little would have changed to pain.

therefore, if it had depended upon me to touch the prevailing chord among them with any skill, i should have made a poor hand of it.

but it depended upon steerforth and he did it with such address, that in a few minutes we were all as easy and as happy as it was possible to be.

mr. peggotty, he said, you are a thoroughly good fellow, and deserve to be as happy as you are tonight. my hand upon it ham, i give you joy, my boy. my hand upon that, too daisy, stir the fire, and make it a brisk one and mr. peggotty, unless you can induce your gentle niece to come back for whom i vacate this seat in the corner, i shall go. any gap at your fireside on such a night  such a gap least of all  i wouldnt make, for the wealth of the indies

so mr. peggotty went into my old room to fetch little emly. at first little emly didnt like to come, and then ham went.

presently they brought her to the fireside, very much confused, and very shy,  but she soon became more assured when she found how gently and respectfully steerforth spoke to her how skilfully he avoided anything that would embarrass her how he talked to mr.

peggotty of boats, and ships, and tides, and fish how he referred to me about the time when he had seen mr. peggotty at salem house how delighted he was with the boat and all belonging to it how lightly and easily he carried on, until he brought us, by degrees, into a charmed circle, and we were all talking away without any reserve.

emly, indeed, said little all the evening but she looked, and listened, and her face got animated, and she was charming.

steerforth told a story of a dismal shipwreck which arose out of his talk with mr. peggotty, as if he saw it all before him  and little emlys eyes were fastened on him all the time, as if she saw it too. he told us a merry adventure of his own, as a relief to that, with as much gaiety as if the narrative were as fresh to him as it was to us  and little emly laughed until the boat rang with the musical sounds, and we all laughed steerforth too, in irresistible sympathy with what was so pleasant and lighthearted.

he got mr. peggotty to sing, or rather to roar, when the stormy winds do blow, do blow, do blow and he sang a sailors song himself, so pathetically and beautifully, that i could have almost fancied that the real wind creeping sorrowfully round the house, and murmuring low through our unbroken silence, was there to listen.

as to mrs. gummidge, he roused that victim of despondency with a success never attained by anyone else so mr. peggotty informed me, since the decease of the old one. he left her so little leisure for being miserable, that she said next day she thought she must have been bewitched.

but he set up no monopoly of the general attention, or the conversation. when little emly grew more courageous, and talked but still bashfully across the fire to me, of our old wanderings upon the beach, to pick up shells and pebbles and when i asked her if she recollected how i used to be devoted to her and when we both laughed and reddened, casting these looks back on the pleasant old times, so unreal to look at now he was silent and attentive, and observed us thoughtfully. she sat, at this time, and all the evening, on the old locker in her old little corner by the fire  ham beside her, where i used to sit. i could not satisfy myself whether it was in her own little tormenting way, or in a maidenly reserve before us, that she kept quite close to the wall, and away from him but i observed that she did so, all the evening.

as i remember, it was almost midnight when we took our leave. we had had some biscuit and dried fish for supper, and steerforth had produced from his pocket a full flask of hollands, which we men i may say we men, now, without a blush had emptied. we parted merrily and as they all stood crowded round the door to light us as far as they could upon our road, i saw the sweet blue eyes of little emly peeping after us, from behind ham, and heard her soft voice calling to us to be careful how we went.

a most engaging little beauty said steerforth, taking my arm.

well its a quaint place, and they are quaint company, and its quite a new sensation to mix with them.

how fortunate we are, too, i returned, to have arrived to witness their happiness in that intended marriage i never saw people so happy. how delightful to see it, and to be made the sharers in their honest joy, as we have been

thats rather a chuckleheaded fellow for the girl isnt he said steerforth.

he had been so hearty with him, and with them all, that i felt a shock in this unexpected and cold reply. but turning quickly upon him, and seeing a laugh in his eyes, i answered, much relieved ah, steerforth its well for you to joke about the poor you may skirmish with miss dartle, or try to hide your sympathies in jest from me, but i know better. when i see how perfectly you understand them, how exquisitely you can enter into happiness like this plain fishermans, or humour a love like my old nurses, i know that there is not a joy or sorrow, not an emotion, of such people, that can be indifferent to you. and i admire and love you for it, steerforth, twenty times the more

he stopped, and, looking in my face, said, daisy, i believe you are in earnest, and are good. i wish we all were next moment he was gaily singing mr. peggottys song, as we walked at a round pace back to yarmouth.



chapter 

some old scenes, and some new people

steerforth and i stayed for more than a fortnight in that part of the country. we were very much together, i need not say but occasionally we were asunder for some hours at a time. he was a good sailor, and i was but an indifferent one and when he went out boating with mr. peggotty, which was a favourite amusement of his, i generally remained ashore. my occupation of peggottys spareroom put a constraint upon me, from which he was free for, knowing how assiduously she attended on mr. barkis all day, i did not like to remain out late at night whereas steerforth, lying at the inn, had nothing to consult but his own humour. thus it came about, that i heard of his making little treats for the fishermen at mr. peggottys house of call, the willing mind, after i was in bed, and of his being afloat, wrapped in fishermens clothes, whole moonlight nights, and coming back when the morning tide was at flood. by this time, however, i knew that his restless nature and bold spirits delighted to find a vent in rough toil and hard weather, as in any other means of excitement that presented itself freshly to him so none of his proceedings surprised me.

another cause of our being sometimes apart, was, that i had naturally an interest in going over to blunderstone, and revisiting the old familiar scenes of my childhood while steerforth, after being there once, had naturally no great interest in going there again. hence, on three or four days that i can at once recall, we went our several ways after an early breakfast, and met again at a late dinner. i had no idea how he employed his time in the interval, beyond a general knowledge that he was very popular in the place, and had twenty means of actively diverting himself where another man might not have found one.

for my own part, my occupation in my solitary pilgrimages was to recall every yard of the old road as i went along it, and to haunt the old spots, of which i never tired. i haunted them, as my memory had often done, and lingered among them as my younger thoughts had lingered when i was far away. the grave beneath the tree, where both my parents lay  on which i had looked out, when it was my fathers only, with such curious feelings of compassion, and by which i had stood, so desolate, when it was opened to receive my pretty mother and her baby  the grave which peggottys own faithful care had ever since kept neat, and made a garden of, i walked near, by the hour. it lay a little off the churchyard path, in a quiet corner, not so far removed but i could read the names upon the stone as i walked to and fro, startled by the sound of the churchbell when it struck the hour, for it was like a departed voice to me. my reflections at these times were always associated with the figure i was to make in life, and the distinguished things i was to do. my echoing footsteps went to no other tune, but were as constant to that as if i had come home to build my castles in the air at a living mothers side.

there were great changes in my old home. the ragged nests, so long deserted by the rooks, were gone and the trees were lopped and topped out of their remembered shapes. the garden had run wild, and half the windows of the house were shut up. it was occupied, but only by a poor lunatic gentleman, and the people who took care of him. he was always sitting at my little window, looking out into the churchyard and i wondered whether his rambling thoughts ever went upon any of the fancies that used to occupy mine, on the rosy mornings when i peeped out of that same little window in my nightclothes, and saw the sheep quietly feeding in the light of the rising sun.

our old neighbours, mr. and mrs. grayper, were gone to south america, and the rain had made its way through the roof of their empty house, and stained the outer walls. mr. chillip was married again to a tall, rawboned, highnosed wife and they had a weazen little baby, with a heavy head that it couldnt hold up, and two weak staring eyes, with which it seemed to be always wondering why it had ever been born.

it was with a singular jumble of sadness and pleasure that i used to linger about my native place, until the reddening winter sun admonished me that it was time to start on my returning walk. but, when the place was left behind, and especially when steerforth and i were happily seated over our dinner by a blazing fire, it was delicious to think of having been there. so it was, though in a softened degree, when i went to my neat room at night and, turning over the leaves of the crocodilebook which was always there, upon a little table, remembered with a grateful heart how blest i was in having such a friend as steerforth, such a friend as peggotty, and such a substitute for what i had lost as my excellent and generous aunt.

my nearest way to yarmouth, in coming back from these long walks, was by a ferry. it landed me on the flat between the town and the sea, which i could make straight across, and so save myself a considerable circuit by the high road. mr. peggottys house being on that wasteplace, and not a hundred yards out of my track, i always looked in as i went by. steerforth was pretty sure to be there expecting me, and we went on together through the frosty air and gathering fog towards the twinkling lights of the town.

one dark evening, when i was later than usual  for i had, that day, been making my parting visit to blunderstone, as we were now about to return home  i found him alone in mr. peggottys house, sitting thoughtfully before the fire. he was so intent upon his own reflections that he was quite unconscious of my approach.

this, indeed, he might easily have been if he had been less absorbed, for footsteps fell noiselessly on the sandy ground outside but even my entrance failed to rouse him. i was standing close to him, looking at him and still, with a heavy brow, he was lost in his meditations.

he gave such a start when i put my hand upon his shoulder, that he made me start too.

you come upon me, he said, almost angrily, like a reproachful ghost

i was obliged to announce myself, somehow, i replied. have i called you down from the stars

no, he answered. no.

up from anywhere, then said i, taking my seat near him.

i was looking at the pictures in the fire, he returned.

but you are spoiling them for me, said i, as he stirred it quickly with a piece of burning wood, striking out of it a train of redhot sparks that went careering up the little chimney, and roaring out into the air.

you would not have seen them, he returned. i detest this mongrel time, neither day nor night. how late you are where have you been

i have been taking leave of my usual walk, said i.

and i have been sitting here, said steerforth, glancing round the room, thinking that all the people we found so glad on the night of our coming down, might  to judge from the present wasted air of the place  be dispersed, or dead, or come to i dont know what harm. david, i wish to god i had had a judicious father these last twenty years

my dear steerforth, what is the matter

i wish with all my soul i had been better guided he exclaimed.

i wish with all my soul i could guide myself better

there was a passionate dejection in his manner that quite amazed me. he was more unlike himself than i could have supposed possible.

it would be better to be this poor peggotty, or his lout of a nephew, he said, getting up and leaning moodily against the chimneypiece, with his face towards the fire, than to be myself, twenty times richer and twenty times wiser, and be the torment to myself that i have been, in this devils bark of a boat, within the last halfhour

i was so confounded by the alteration in him, that at first i could only observe him in silence, as he stood leaning his head upon his hand, and looking gloomily down at the fire. at length i begged him, with all the earnestness i felt, to tell me what had occurred to cross him so unusually, and to let me sympathize with him, if i could not hope to advise him. before i had well concluded, he began to laugh  fretfully at first, but soon with returning gaiety.

tut, its nothing, daisy nothing he replied. i told you at the inn in london, i am heavy company for myself, sometimes. i have been a nightmare to myself, just now  must have had one, i think. at odd dull times, nursery tales come up into the memory, unrecognized for what they are. i believe i have been confounding myself with the bad boy who didnt care, and became food for lions  a grander kind of going to the dogs, i suppose. what old women call the horrors, have been creeping over me from head to foot. i have been afraid of myself.

you are afraid of nothing else, i think, said i.

perhaps not, and yet may have enough to be afraid of too, he answered. well so it goes by i am not about to be hipped again, david but i tell you, my good fellow, once more, that it would have been well for me and for more than me if i had had a steadfast and judicious father

his face was always full of expression, but i never saw it express such a dark kind of earnestness as when he said these words, with his glance bent on the fire.

so much for that he said, making as if he tossed something light into the air, with his hand. why, being gone, i am a man again, like macbeth. and now for dinner if i have not macbethlike broken up the feast with most admired disorder, daisy.

but where are they all, i wonder said i.

god knows, said steerforth. after strolling to the ferry looking for you, i strolled in here and found the place deserted.

that set me thinking, and you found me thinking.

the advent of mrs. gummidge with a basket, explained how the house had happened to be empty. she had hurried out to buy something that was needed, against mr. peggottys return with the tide and had left the door open in the meanwhile, lest ham and little emly, with whom it was an early night, should come home while she was gone. steerforth, after very much improving mrs. gummidges spirits by a cheerful salutation and a jocose embrace, took my arm, and hurried me away.

he had improved his own spirits, no less than mrs. gummidges, for they were again at their usual flow, and he was full of vivacious conversation as we went along.

and so, he said, gaily, we abandon this buccaneer life tomorrow, do we

so we agreed, i returned. and our places by the coach are taken, you know.

ay theres no help for it, i suppose, said steerforth. i have almost forgotten that there is anything to do in the world but to go out tossing on the sea here. i wish there was not.

as long as the novelty should last, said i, laughing.

like enough, he returned though theres a sarcastic meaning in that observation for an amiable piece of innocence like my young friend. well i dare say i am a capricious fellow, david. i know i am but while the iron is hot, i can strike it vigorously too.

i could pass a reasonably good examination already, as a pilot in these waters, i think.

mr. peggotty says you are a wonder, i returned.

a nautical phenomenon, eh laughed steerforth.

indeed he does, and you know how truly i know how ardent you are in any pursuit you follow, and how easily you can master it. and that amazes me most in you, steerforth that you should be contented with such fitful uses of your powers.

contented he answered, merrily. i am never contented, except with your freshness, my gentle daisy. as to fitfulness, i have never learnt the art of binding myself to any of the wheels on which the ixions of these days are turning round and round. i missed it somehow in a bad apprenticeship, and now dont care about it.  you know i have bought a boat down here

what an extraordinary fellow you are, steerforth i exclaimed, stopping  for this was the first i had heard of it. when you may never care to come near the place again

i dont know that, he returned. i have taken a fancy to the place. at all events, walking me briskly on, i have bought a boat that was for sale  a clipper, mr. peggotty says and so she is  and mr. peggotty will be master of her in my absence.

now i understand you, steerforth said i, exultingly. you pretend to have bought it for yourself, but you have really done so to confer a benefit on him. i might have known as much at first, knowing you. my dear kind steerforth, how can i tell you what i think of your generosity

tush he answered, turning red. the less said, the better.

didnt i know cried i, didnt i say that there was not a joy, or sorrow, or any emotion of such honest hearts that was indifferent to you

aye, aye, he answered, you told me all that. there let it rest.

we have said enough

afraid of offending him by pursuing the subject when he made so light of it, i only pursued it in my thoughts as we went on at even a quicker pace than before.

she must be newly rigged, said steerforth, and i shall leave littimer behind to see it done, that i may know she is quite complete. did i tell you littimer had come down

no.

oh yes came down this morning, with a letter from my mother.

as our looks met, i observed that he was pale even to his lips, though he looked very steadily at me. i feared that some difference between him and his mother might have led to his being in the frame of mind in which i had found him at the solitary fireside. i hinted so.

oh no he said, shaking his head, and giving a slight laugh.

nothing of the sort yes. he is come down, that man of mine.

the same as ever said i.

the same as ever, said steerforth. distant and quiet as the north pole. he shall see to the boat being fresh named. shes the stormy petrel now. what does mr. peggotty care for stormy petrels ill have her christened again.

by what name i asked.

the little emly.

as he had continued to look steadily at me, i took it as a reminder that he objected to being extolled for his consideration. i could not help showing in my face how much it pleased me, but i said little, and he resumed his usual smile, and seemed relieved.

but see here, he said, looking before us, where the original little emly comes and that fellow with her, eh upon my soul, hes a true knight. he never leaves her

ham was a boatbuilder in these days, having improved a natural ingenuity in that handicraft, until he had become a skilled workman. he was in his workingdress, and looked rugged enough, but manly withal, and a very fit protector for the blooming little creature at his side. indeed, there was a frankness in his face, an honesty, and an undisguised show of his pride in her, and his love for her, which were, to me, the best of good looks. i thought, as they came towards us, that they were well matched even in that particular.

she withdrew her hand timidly from his arm as we stopped to speak to them, and blushed as she gave it to steerforth and to me. when they passed on, after we had exchanged a few words, she did not like to replace that hand, but, still appearing timid and constrained, walked by herself. i thought all this very pretty and engaging, and steerforth seemed to think so too, as we looked after them fading away in the light of a young moon.

suddenly there passed us  evidently following them  a young woman whose approach we had not observed, but whose face i saw as she went by, and thought i had a faint remembrance of. she was lightly dressed looked bold, and haggard, and flaunting, and poor but seemed, for the time, to have given all that to the wind which was blowing, and to have nothing in her mind but going after them. as the dark distant level, absorbing their figures into itself, left but itself visible between us and the sea and clouds, her figure disappeared in like manner, still no nearer to them than before.

that is a black shadow to be following the girl, said steerforth, standing still what does it mean

he spoke in a low voice that sounded almost strange to me.

she must have it in her mind to beg of them, i think, said i.

a beggar would be no novelty, said steerforth but it is a strange thing that the beggar should take that shape tonight.

why i asked.

for no better reason, truly, than because i was thinking, he said, after a pause, of something like it, when it came by. where the devil did it come from, i wonder

from the shadow of this wall, i think, said i, as we emerged upon a road on which a wall abutted.

its gone he returned, looking over his shoulder. and all ill go with it. now for our dinner

but he looked again over his shoulder towards the sealine glimmering afar off, and yet again. and he wondered about it, in some broken expressions, several times, in the short remainder of our walk and only seemed to forget it when the light of fire and candle shone upon us, seated warm and merry, at table.

littimer was there, and had his usual effect upon me. when i said to him that i hoped mrs. steerforth and miss dartle were well, he answered respectfully and of course respectably, that they were tolerably well, he thanked me, and had sent their compliments.

this was all, and yet he seemed to me to say as plainly as a man could say you are very young, sir you are exceedingly young.

we had almost finished dinner, when taking a step or two towards the table, from the corner where he kept watch upon us, or rather upon me, as i felt, he said to his master i beg your pardon, sir. miss mowcher is down here.

who cried steerforth, much astonished.

miss mowcher, sir.

why, what on earth does she do here said steerforth.

it appears to be her native part of the country, sir. she informs me that she makes one of her professional visits here, every year, sir. i met her in the street this afternoon, and she wished to know if she might have the honour of waiting on you after dinner, sir.

do you know the giantess in question, daisy inquired steerforth.

i was obliged to confess  i felt ashamed, even of being at this disadvantage before littimer  that miss mowcher and i were wholly unacquainted.

then you shall know her, said steerforth, for she is one of the seven wonders of the world. when miss mowcher comes, show her in.

i felt some curiosity and excitement about this lady, especially as steerforth burst into a fit of laughing when i referred to her, and positively refused to answer any question of which i made her the subject. i remained, therefore, in a state of considerable expectation until the cloth had been removed some half an hour, and we were sitting over our decanter of wine before the fire, when the door opened, and littimer, with his habitual serenity quite undisturbed, announced miss mowcher

i looked at the doorway and saw nothing. i was still looking at the doorway, thinking that miss mowcher was a long while making her appearance, when, to my infinite astonishment, there came waddling round a sofa which stood between me and it, a pursy dwarf, of about forty or fortyfive, with a very large head and face, a pair of roguish grey eyes, and such extremely little arms, that, to enable herself to lay a finger archly against her snub nose, as she ogled steerforth, she was obliged to meet the finger halfway, and lay her nose against it. her chin, which was what is called a double chin, was so fat that it entirely swallowed up the strings of her bonnet, bow and all. throat she had none waist she had none legs she had none, worth mentioning for though she was more than fullsized down to where her waist would have been, if she had had any, and though she terminated, as human beings generally do, in a pair of feet, she was so short that she stood at a commonsized chair as at a table, resting a bag she carried on the seat. this lady  dressed in an offhand, easy style bringing her nose and her forefinger together, with the difficulty i have described standing with her head necessarily on one side, and, with one of her sharp eyes shut up, making an uncommonly knowing face  after ogling steerforth for a few moments, broke into a torrent of words.

what my flower she pleasantly began, shaking her large head at him. youre there, are you oh, you naughty boy, fie for shame, what do you do so far away from home up to mischief, ill be bound. oh, youre a downy fellow, steerforth, so you are, and im another, aint i ha, ha, ha youd have betted a hundred pound to five, now, that you wouldnt have seen me here, wouldnt you

bless you, man alive, im everywhere. im here and there, and where not, like the conjurers halfcrown in the ladys handkercher. talking of handkerchers  and talking of ladies  what a comfort you are to your blessed mother, aint you, my dear boy, over one of my shoulders, and i dont say which

miss mowcher untied her bonnet, at this passage of her discourse, threw back the strings, and sat down, panting, on a footstool in front of the fire  making a kind of arbour of the dining table, which spread its mahogany shelter above her head.

oh my stars and whatstheirnames she went on, clapping a hand on each of her little knees, and glancing shrewdly at me, im of too full a habit, thats the fact, steerforth. after a flight of stairs, it gives me as much trouble to draw every breath i want, as if it was a bucket of water. if you saw me looking out of an upper window, youd think i was a fine woman, wouldnt you

i should think that, wherever i saw you, replied steerforth.

go along, you dog, do cried the little creature, making a whisk at him with the handkerchief with which she was wiping her face, and dont be impudent but i give you my word and honour i was at lady mitherss last week  theres a woman how she wears  and mithers himself came into the room where i was waiting for her  theres a man how he wears and his wig too, for hes had it these ten years  and he went on at that rate in the complimentary line, that i began to think i should be obliged to ring the bell.

ha ha ha hes a pleasant wretch, but he wants principle.

what were you doing for lady mithers asked steerforth.

thats tellings, my blessed infant, she retorted, tapping her nose again, screwing up her face, and twinkling her eyes like an imp of supernatural intelligence. never you mind youd like to know whether i stop her hair from falling off, or dye it, or touch up her complexion, or improve her eyebrows, wouldnt you and so you shall, my darling  when i tell you do you know what my great grandfathers name was

no, said steerforth.

it was walker, my sweet pet, replied miss mowcher, and he came of a long line of walkers, that i inherit all the hookey estates from.

i never beheld anything approaching to miss mowchers wink except miss mowchers selfpossession. she had a wonderful way too, when listening to what was said to her, or when waiting for an answer to what she had said herself, of pausing with her head cunningly on one side, and one eye turned up like a magpies. altogether i was lost in amazement, and sat staring at her, quite oblivious, i am afraid, of the laws of politeness.

she had by this time drawn the chair to her side, and was busily engaged in producing from the bag plunging in her short arm to the shoulder, at every dive a number of small bottles, sponges, combs, brushes, bits of flannel, little pairs of curlingirons, and other instruments, which she tumbled in a heap upon the chair. from this employment she suddenly desisted, and said to steerforth, much to my confusion whos your friend

mr. copperfield, said steerforth he wants to know you.

well, then, he shall i thought he looked as if he did returned miss mowcher, waddling up to me, bag in hand, and laughing on me as she came. face like a peach standing on tiptoe to pinch my cheek as i sat. quite tempting im very fond of peaches. happy to make your acquaintance, mr. copperfield, im sure.

i said that i congratulated myself on having the honour to make hers, and that the happiness was mutual.

oh, my goodness, how polite we are exclaimed miss mowcher, making a preposterous attempt to cover her large face with her morsel of a hand. what a world of gammon and spinnage it is, though, aint it

this was addressed confidentially to both of us, as the morsel of a hand came away from the face, and buried itself, arm and all, in the bag again.

what do you mean, miss mowcher said steerforth.

ha ha ha what a refreshing set of humbugs we are, to be sure, aint we, my sweet child replied that morsel of a woman, feeling in the bag with her head on one side and her eye in the air. look here taking something out. scraps of the russian princes nails. prince alphabet turned topsyturvy, i call him, for his names got all the letters in it, higgledypiggledy.

the russian prince is a client of yours, is he said steerforth.

i believe you, my pet, replied miss mowcher. i keep his nails in order for him. twice a week fingers and toes.

he pays well, i hope said steerforth.

pays, as he speaks, my dear child  through the nose, replied miss mowcher. none of your close shavers the prince aint. youd say so, if you saw his moustachios. red by nature, black by art.

by your art, of course, said steerforth.

miss mowcher winked assent. forced to send for me. couldnt help it. the climate affected his dye it did very well in russia, but it was no go here. you never saw such a rusty prince in all your born days as he was. like old iron

is that why you called him a humbug, just now inquired steerforth.

oh, youre a broth of a boy, aint you returned miss mowcher, shaking her head violently. i said, what a set of humbugs we were in general, and i showed you the scraps of the princes nails to prove it. the princes nails do more for me in private families of the genteel sort, than all my talents put together. i always carry em about. theyre the best introduction. if miss mowcher cuts the princes nails, she must be all right. i give em away to the young ladies. they put em in albums, i believe. ha ha ha

upon my life, the whole social system as the men call it when they make speeches in parliament is a system of princes nails said this least of women, trying to fold her short arms, and nodding her large head.

steerforth laughed heartily, and i laughed too. miss mowcher continuing all the time to shake her head which was very much on one side, and to look into the air with one eye, and to wink with the other.

well, well she said, smiting her small knees, and rising, this is not business. come, steerforth, lets explore the polar regions, and have it over.

she then selected two or three of the little instruments, and a little bottle, and asked to my surprise if the table would bear.

on steerforths replying in the affirmative, she pushed a chair against it, and begging the assistance of my hand, mounted up, pretty nimbly, to the top, as if it were a stage.

if either of you saw my ankles, she said, when she was safely elevated, say so, and ill go home and destroy myself

i did not, said steerforth.

i did not, said i.

well then, cried miss mowcher, ill consent to live. now, ducky, ducky, ducky, come to mrs. bond and be killed.

this was an invocation to steerforth to place himself under her hands who, accordingly, sat himself down, with his back to the table, and his laughing face towards me, and submitted his head to her inspection, evidently for no other purpose than our entertainment. to see miss mowcher standing over him, looking at his rich profusion of brown hair through a large round magnifying glass, which she took out of her pocket, was a most amazing spectacle.

youre a pretty fellow said miss mowcher, after a brief inspection. youd be as bald as a friar on the top of your head in twelve months, but for me. just half a minute, my young friend, and well give you a polishing that shall keep your curls on for the next ten years

with this, she tilted some of the contents of the little bottle on to one of the little bits of flannel, and, again imparting some of the virtues of that preparation to one of the little brushes, began rubbing and scraping away with both on the crown of steerforths head in the busiest manner i ever witnessed, talking all the time.

theres charley pyegrave, the dukes son, she said. you know charley peeping round into his face.

a little, said steerforth.

what a man he is theres a whisker as to charleys legs, if they were only a pair which they aint, theyd defy competition.

would you believe he tried to do without me  in the lifeguards, too

mad said steerforth.

it looks like it. however, mad or sane, he tried, returned miss mowcher. what does he do, but, lo and behold you, he goes into a perfumers shop, and wants to buy a bottle of the madagascar liquid.

charley does said steerforth.

charley does. but they havent got any of the madagascar liquid.

what is it something to drink asked steerforth.

to drink returned miss mowcher, stopping to slap his cheek. to doctor his own moustachios with, you know. there was a woman in the shop  elderly female  quite a griffin  who had never even heard of it by name. begging pardon, sir, said the griffin to charley, its not  not  not rouge, is it rouge, said charley to the griffin. what the unmentionable to ears polite, do you think i want with rouge no offence, sir, said the griffin

we have it asked for by so many names, i thought it might be. now that, my child, continued miss mowcher, rubbing all the time as busily as ever, is another instance of the refreshing humbug i was speaking of. i do something in that way myself  perhaps a good deal  perhaps a little  sharps the word, my dear boy  never mind

in what way do you mean in the rouge way said steerforth.

put this and that together, my tender pupil, returned the wary mowcher, touching her nose, work it by the rule of secrets in all trades, and the product will give you the desired result. i say i do a little in that way myself. one dowager, she calls it lipsalve. another, she calls it gloves. another, she calls it tuckeredging. another, she calls it a fan. i call it whatever they call it. i supply it for em, but we keep up the trick so, to one another, and make believe with such a face, that theyd as soon think of laying it on, before a whole drawingroom, as before me.

and when i wait upon em, theyll say to me sometimes  with it on  thick, and no mistake  how am i looking, mowcher am i pale

ha ha ha ha isnt that refreshing, my young friend

i never did in my days behold anything like mowcher as she stood upon the dining table, intensely enjoying this refreshment, rubbing busily at steerforths head, and winking at me over it.

ah she said. such things are not much in demand hereabouts.

that sets me off again i havent seen a pretty woman since ive been here, jemmy.

no said steerforth.

not the ghost of one, replied miss mowcher.

we could show her the substance of one, i think said steerforth, addressing his eyes to mine. eh, daisy

yes, indeed, said i.

aha cried the little creature, glancing sharply at my face, and then peeping round at steerforths. umph

the first exclamation sounded like a question put to both of us, and the second like a question put to steerforth only. she seemed to have found no answer to either, but continued to rub, with her head on one side and her eye turned up, as if she were looking for an answer in the air and were confident of its appearing presently.

a sister of yours, mr. copperfield she cried, after a pause, and still keeping the same lookout. aye, aye

no, said steerforth, before i could reply. nothing of the sort.

on the contrary, mr. copperfield used  or i am much mistaken  to have a great admiration for her.

why, hasnt he now returned miss mowcher. is he fickle oh, for shame did he sip every flower, and change every hour, until polly his passion requited  is her name polly

the elfin suddenness with which she pounced upon me with this question, and a searching look, quite disconcerted me for a moment.

no, miss mowcher, i replied. her name is emily.

aha she cried exactly as before. umph what a rattle i am

mr. copperfield, aint i volatile

her tone and look implied something that was not agreeable to me in connexion with the subject. so i said, in a graver manner than any of us had yet assumed she is as virtuous as she is pretty. she is engaged to be married to a most worthy and deserving man in her own station of life. i esteem her for her good sense, as much as i admire her for her good looks.

well said cried steerforth. hear, hear, hear now ill quench the curiosity of this little fatima, my dear daisy, by leaving her nothing to guess at. she is at present apprenticed, miss mowcher, or articled, or whatever it may be, to omer and joram, haberdashers, milliners, and so forth, in this town. do you observe omer and joram. the promise of which my friend has spoken, is made and entered into with her cousin christian name, ham surname, peggotty occupation, boatbuilder also of this town. she lives with a relative christian name, unknown surname, peggotty occupation, seafaring also of this town. she is the prettiest and most engaging little fairy in the world. i admire her  as my friend does  exceedingly. if it were not that i might appear to disparage her intended, which i know my friend would not like, i would add, that to me she seems to be throwing herself away that i am sure she might do better and that i swear she was born to be a lady.

miss mowcher listened to these words, which were very slowly and distinctly spoken, with her head on one side, and her eye in the air as if she were still looking for that answer. when he ceased she became brisk again in an instant, and rattled away with surprising volubility.

oh and thats all about it, is it she exclaimed, trimming his whiskers with a little restless pair of scissors, that went glancing round his head in all directions. very well very well

quite a long story. ought to end and they lived happy ever afterwards oughtnt it ah whats that game at forfeits i love my love with an e, because shes enticing i hate her with an e, because shes engaged. i took her to the sign of the exquisite, and treated her with an elopement, her names emily, and she lives in the east ha ha ha mr. copperfield, aint i volatile

merely looking at me with extravagant slyness, and not waiting for any reply, she continued, without drawing breath there if ever any scapegrace was trimmed and touched up to perfection, you are, steerforth. if i understand any noddle in the world, i understand yours. do you hear me when i tell you that, my darling i understand yours, peeping down into his face. now you may mizzle, jemmy as we say at court, and if mr. copperfield will take the chair ill operate on him.

what do you say, daisy inquired steerforth, laughing, and resigning his seat. will you be improved

thank you, miss mowcher, not this evening.

dont say no, returned the little woman, looking at me with the aspect of a connoisseur a little bit more eyebrow

thank you, i returned, some other time.

have it carried half a quarter of an inch towards the temple, said miss mowcher. we can do it in a fortnight.

no, i thank you. not at present.

go in for a tip, she urged. no lets get the scaffolding up, then, for a pair of whiskers. come

i could not help blushing as i declined, for i felt we were on my weak point, now. but miss mowcher, finding that i was not at present disposed for any decoration within the range of her art, and that i was, for the time being, proof against the blandishments of the small bottle which she held up before one eye to enforce her persuasions, said we would make a beginning on an early day, and requested the aid of my hand to descend from her elevated station.

thus assisted, she skipped down with much agility, and began to tie her double chin into her bonnet.

the fee, said steerforth, is 

five bob, replied miss mowcher, and dirt cheap, my chicken.

aint i volatile, mr. copperfield

i replied politely not at all. but i thought she was rather so, when she tossed up his two halfcrowns like a goblin pieman, caught them, dropped them in her pocket, and gave it a loud slap.

thats the till observed miss mowcher, standing at the chair again, and replacing in the bag a miscellaneous collection of little objects she had emptied out of it. have i got all my traps it seems so. it wont do to be like long ned beadwood, when they took him to church to marry him to somebody, as he says, and left the bride behind. ha ha ha a wicked rascal, ned, but droll now, i know im going to break your hearts, but i am forced to leave you. you must call up all your fortitude, and try to bear it. goodbye, mr. copperfield take care of yourself, jockey of norfolk how i have been rattling on its all the fault of you two wretches. i forgive you bob swore  as the englishman said for good night, when he first learnt french, and thought it so like english. bob swore, my ducks

with the bag slung over her arm, and rattling as she waddled away, she waddled to the door, where she stopped to inquire if she should leave us a lock of her hair. aint i volatile she added, as a commentary on this offer, and, with her finger on her nose, departed.

steerforth laughed to that degree, that it was impossible for me to help laughing too though i am not sure i should have done so, but for this inducement. when we had had our laugh quite out, which was after some time, he told me that miss mowcher had quite an extensive connexion, and made herself useful to a variety of people in a variety of ways. some people trifled with her as a mere oddity, he said but she was as shrewdly and sharply observant as anyone he knew, and as longheaded as she was shortarmed. he told me that what she had said of being here, and there, and everywhere, was true enough for she made little darts into the provinces, and seemed to pick up customers everywhere, and to know everybody. i asked him what her disposition was whether it was at all mischievous, and if her sympathies were generally on the right side of things but, not succeeding in attracting his attention to these questions after two or three attempts, i forbore or forgot to repeat them. he told me instead, with much rapidity, a good deal about her skill, and her profits and about her being a scientific cupper, if i should ever have occasion for her service in that capacity.

she was the principal theme of our conversation during the evening and when we parted for the night steerforth called after me over the banisters, bob swore as i went downstairs.

i was surprised, when i came to mr. barkiss house, to find ham walking up and down in front of it, and still more surprised to learn from him that little emly was inside. i naturally inquired why he was not there too, instead of pacing the streets by himself why, you see, masr davy, he rejoined, in a hesitating manner, emly, shes talking to some un in here.

i should have thought, said i, smiling, that that was a reason for your being in here too, ham.

well, masr davy, in a general way, so t would be, he returned but lookee here, masr davy, lowering his voice, and speaking very gravely. its a young woman, sir  a young woman, that emly knowed once, and doent ought to know no more.

when i heard these words, a light began to fall upon the figure i had seen following them, some hours ago.

its a poor wurem, masr davy, said ham, as is trod under foot by all the town. up street and down street. the mowld o the churchyard dont hold any that the folk shrink away from, more.

did i see her tonight, ham, on the sand, after we met you

keeping us in sight said ham. its like you did, masr davy.

not that i knowd then, she was theer, sir, but along of her creeping soon arterwards under emlys little winder, when she see the light come, and whispering emly, emly, for christs sake, have a womans heart towards me. i was once like you those was solemn words, masr davy, fur to hear

they were indeed, ham. what did emly do

says emly, martha, is it you oh, martha, can it be you  for they had sat at work together, many a day, at mr. omers.

i recollect her now cried i, recalling one of the two girls i had seen when i first went there. i recollect her quite well

martha endell, said ham. two or three year older than emly, but was at the school with her.

i never heard her name, said i. i didnt mean to interrupt you.

for the matter o that, masr davy, replied ham, alls told amost in them words, emly, emly, for christs sake, have a womans heart towards me. i was once like you she wanted to speak to emly. emly couldnt speak to her theer, for her loving uncle was come home, and he wouldnt  no, masr davy, said ham, with great earnestness, he couldnt, kindnaturd, tenderhearted as he is, see them two together, side by side, for all the treasures thats wrecked in the sea.

i felt how true this was. i knew it, on the instant, quite as well as ham.

so emly writes in pencil on a bit of paper, he pursued, and gives it to her out o winder to bring here. show that, she says, to my aunt, mrs. barkis, and shell set you down by her fire, for the love of me, till uncle is gone out, and i can come.

by and by she tells me what i tell you, masr davy, and asks me to bring her. what can i do she doent ought to know any such, but i cant deny her, when the tears is on her face.

he put his hand into the breast of his shaggy jacket, and took out with great care a pretty little purse.

and if i could deny her when the tears was on her face, masr davy, said ham, tenderly adjusting it on the rough palm of his hand, how could i deny her when she give me this to carry for her  knowing what she brought it for such a toy as it is said ham, thoughtfully looking on it. with such a little money in it, emly my dear.

i shook him warmly by the hand when he had put it away again  for that was more satisfactory to me than saying anything  and we walked up and down, for a minute or two, in silence. the door opened then, and peggotty appeared, beckoning to ham to come in.

i would have kept away, but she came after me, entreating me to come in too. even then, i would have avoided the room where they all were, but for its being the neattiled kitchen i have mentioned more than once. the door opening immediately into it, i found myself among them before i considered whither i was going.

the girl  the same i had seen upon the sands  was near the fire.

she was sitting on the ground, with her head and one arm lying on a chair. i fancied, from the disposition of her figure, that emly had but newly risen from the chair, and that the forlorn head might perhaps have been lying on her lap. i saw but little of the girls face, over which her hair fell loose and scattered, as if she had been disordering it with her own hands but i saw that she was young, and of a fair complexion. peggotty had been crying. so had little emly. not a word was spoken when we first went in and the dutch clock by the dresser seemed, in the silence, to tick twice as loud as usual. emly spoke first.

martha wants, she said to ham, to go to london.

why to london returned ham.

he stood between them, looking on the prostrate girl with a mixture of compassion for her, and of jealousy of her holding any companionship with her whom he loved so well, which i have always remembered distinctly. they both spoke as if she were ill in a soft, suppressed tone that was plainly heard, although it hardly rose above a whisper.

better there than here, said a third voice aloud  marthas, though she did not move. no one knows me there. everybody knows me here.

what will she do there inquired ham.

she lifted up her head, and looked darkly round at him for a moment then laid it down again, and curved her right arm about her neck, as a woman in a fever, or in an agony of pain from a shot, might twist herself.

she will try to do well, said little emly. you dont know what she has said to us. does he  do they  aunt

peggotty shook her head compassionately.

ill try, said martha, if youll help me away. i never can do worse than i have done here. i may do better. oh with a dreadful shiver, take me out of these streets, where the whole town knows me from a child

as emly held out her hand to ham, i saw him put in it a little canvas bag. she took it, as if she thought it were her purse, and made a step or two forward but finding her mistake, came back to where he had retired near me, and showed it to him.

its all yourn, emly, i could hear him say. i havent nowt in all the wureld that aint yourn, my dear. it aint of no delight to me, except for you

the tears rose freshly in her eyes, but she turned away and went to martha. what she gave her, i dont know. i saw her stooping over her, and putting money in her bosom. she whispered something, as she asked was that enough more than enough, the other said, and took her hand and kissed it.

then martha arose, and gathering her shawl about her, covering her face with it, and weeping aloud, went slowly to the door. she stopped a moment before going out, as if she would have uttered something or turned back but no word passed her lips. making the same low, dreary, wretched moaning in her shawl, she went away.

as the door closed, little emly looked at us three in a hurried manner and then hid her face in her hands, and fell to sobbing.

doent, emly said ham, tapping her gently on the shoulder.

doent, my dear you doent ought to cry so, pretty

oh, ham she exclaimed, still weeping pitifully, i am not so good a girl as i ought to be i know i have not the thankful heart, sometimes, i ought to have

yes, yes, you have, im sure, said ham.

no no no cried little emly, sobbing, and shaking her head.

i am not as good a girl as i ought to be. not near not near

and still she cried, as if her heart would break.

i try your love too much. i know i do she sobbed. im often cross to you, and changeable with you, when i ought to be far different. you are never so to me. why am i ever so to you, when i should think of nothing but how to be grateful, and to make you happy

you always make me so, said ham, my dear i am happy in the sight of you. i am happy, all day long, in the thoughts of you.

ah thats not enough she cried. that is because you are good not because i am oh, my dear, it might have been a better fortune for you, if you had been fond of someone else  of someone steadier and much worthier than me, who was all bound up in you, and never vain and changeable like me

poor little tenderheart, said ham, in a low voice. martha has overset her, altogether.

please, aunt, sobbed emly, come here, and let me lay my head upon you. oh, i am very miserable tonight, aunt oh, i am not as good a girl as i ought to be. i am not, i know

peggotty had hastened to the chair before the fire. emly, with her arms around her neck, kneeled by her, looking up most earnestly into her face.

oh, pray, aunt, try to help me ham, dear, try to help me mr.

david, for the sake of old times, do, please, try to help me i want to be a better girl than i am. i want to feel a hundred times more thankful than i do. i want to feel more, what a blessed thing it is to be the wife of a good man, and to lead a peaceful life.

oh me, oh me oh my heart, my heart

she dropped her face on my old nurses breast, and, ceasing this supplication, which in its agony and grief was half a womans, half a childs, as all her manner was being, in that, more natural, and better suited to her beauty, as i thought, than any other manner could have been, wept silently, while my old nurse hushed her like an infant.

she got calmer by degrees, and then we soothed her now talking encouragingly, and now jesting a little with her, until she began to raise her head and speak to us. so we got on, until she was able to smile, and then to laugh, and then to sit up, half ashamed while peggotty recalled her stray ringlets, dried her eyes, and made her neat again, lest her uncle should wonder, when she got home, why his darling had been crying.

i saw her do, that night, what i had never seen her do before. i saw her innocently kiss her chosen husband on the cheek, and creep close to his bluff form as if it were her best support. when they went away together, in the waning moonlight, and i looked after them, comparing their departure in my mind with marthas, i saw that she held his arm with both her hands, and still kept close to him.



chapter 

i corroborate mr. dick, and choose a profession

when i awoke in the morning i thought very much of little emly, and her emotion last night, after martha had left. i felt as if i had come into the knowledge of those domestic weaknesses and tendernesses in a sacred confidence, and that to disclose them, even to steerforth, would be wrong. i had no gentler feeling towards anyone than towards the pretty creature who had been my playmate, and whom i have always been persuaded, and shall always be persuaded, to my dying day, i then devotedly loved. the repetition to any ears  even to steerforths  of what she had been unable to repress when her heart lay open to me by an accident, i felt would be a rough deed, unworthy of myself, unworthy of the light of our pure childhood, which i always saw encircling her head. i made a resolution, therefore, to keep it in my own breast and there it gave her image a new grace.

while we were at breakfast, a letter was delivered to me from my aunt. as it contained matter on which i thought steerforth could advise me as well as anyone, and on which i knew i should be delighted to consult him, i resolved to make it a subject of discussion on our journey home. for the present we had enough to do, in taking leave of all our friends. mr. barkis was far from being the last among them, in his regret at our departure and i believe would even have opened the box again, and sacrificed another guinea, if it would have kept us eightandforty hours in yarmouth. peggotty and all her family were full of grief at our going. the whole house of omer and joram turned out to bid us goodbye and there were so many seafaring volunteers in attendance on steerforth, when our portmanteaux went to the coach, that if we had had the baggage of a regiment with us, we should hardly have wanted porters to carry it. in a word, we departed to the regret and admiration of all concerned, and left a great many people very sorry behind us.

do you stay long here, littimer said i, as he stood waiting to see the coach start.

no, sir, he replied probably not very long, sir.

he can hardly say, just now, observed steerforth, carelessly.

he knows what he has to do, and hell do it.

that i am sure he will, said i.

littimer touched his hat in acknowledgement of my good opinion, and i felt about eight years old. he touched it once more, wishing us a good journey and we left him standing on the pavement, as respectable a mystery as any pyramid in egypt.

for some little time we held no conversation, steerforth being unusually silent, and i being sufficiently engaged in wondering, within myself, when i should see the old places again, and what new changes might happen to me or them in the meanwhile. at length steerforth, becoming gay and talkative in a moment, as he could become anything he liked at any moment, pulled me by the arm find a voice, david. what about that letter you were speaking of at breakfast

oh said i, taking it out of my pocket. its from my aunt.

and what does she say, requiring consideration

why, she reminds me, steerforth, said i, that i came out on this expedition to look about me, and to think a little.

which, of course, you have done

indeed i cant say i have, particularly. to tell you the truth, i am afraid i have forgotten it.

well look about you now, and make up for your negligence, said steerforth. look to the right, and youll see a flat country, with a good deal of marsh in it look to the left, and youll see the same. look to the front, and youll find no difference look to the rear, and there it is still.

i laughed, and replied that i saw no suitable profession in the whole prospect which was perhaps to be attributed to its flatness.

what says our aunt on the subject inquired steerforth, glancing at the letter in my hand. does she suggest anything

why, yes, said i. she asks me, here, if i think i should like to be a proctor what do you think of it

well, i dont know, replied steerforth, coolly. you may as well do that as anything else, i suppose

i could not help laughing again, at his balancing all callings and professions so equally and i told him so.

what is a proctor, steerforth said i.

why, he is a sort of monkish attorney, replied steerforth. he is, to some faded courts held in doctors commons,  a lazy old nook near st. pauls churchyard  what solicitors are to the courts of law and equity. he is a functionary whose existence, in the natural course of things, would have terminated about two hundred years ago. i can tell you best what he is, by telling you what doctors commons is. its a little outoftheway place, where they administer what is called ecclesiastical law, and play all kinds of tricks with obsolete old monsters of acts of parliament, which threefourths of the world know nothing about, and the other fourth supposes to have been dug up, in a fossil state, in the days of the edwards. its a place that has an ancient monopoly in suits about peoples wills and peoples marriages, and disputes among ships and boats.

nonsense, steerforth i exclaimed. you dont mean to say that there is any affinity between nautical matters and ecclesiastical matters

i dont, indeed, my dear boy, he returned but i mean to say that they are managed and decided by the same set of people, down in that same doctors commons. you shall go there one day, and find them blundering through half the nautical terms in youngs dictionary, apropos of the nancy having run down the sarah jane, or mr. peggotty and the yarmouth boatmen having put off in a gale of wind with an anchor and cable to the nelson indiaman in distress and you shall go there another day, and find them deep in the evidence, pro and con, respecting a clergyman who has misbehaved himself and you shall find the judge in the nautical case, the advocate in the clergymans case, or contrariwise. they are like actors now a mans a judge, and now he is not a judge now hes one thing, now hes another now hes something else, change and change about but its always a very pleasant, profitable little affair of private theatricals, presented to an uncommonly select audience.

but advocates and proctors are not one and the same said i, a little puzzled. are they

no, returned steerforth, the advocates are civilians  men who have taken a doctors degree at college  which is the first reason of my knowing anything about it. the proctors employ the advocates. both get very comfortable fees, and altogether they make a mighty snug little party. on the whole, i would recommend you to take to doctors commons kindly, david. they plume themselves on their gentility there, i can tell you, if thats any satisfaction.

i made allowance for steerforths light way of treating the subject, and, considering it with reference to the staid air of gravity and antiquity which i associated with that lazy old nook near st. pauls churchyard, did not feel indisposed towards my aunts suggestion which she left to my free decision, making no scruple of telling me that it had occurred to her, on her lately visiting her own proctor in doctors commons for the purpose of settling her will in my favour.

thats a laudable proceeding on the part of our aunt, at all events, said steerforth, when i mentioned it and one deserving of all encouragement. daisy, my advice is that you take kindly to doctors commons.

i quite made up my mind to do so. i then told steerforth that my aunt was in town awaiting me as i found from her letter, and that she had taken lodgings for a week at a kind of private hotel at lincolns inn fields, where there was a stone staircase, and a convenient door in the roof my aunt being firmly persuaded that every house in london was going to be burnt down every night.

we achieved the rest of our journey pleasantly, sometimes recurring to doctors commons, and anticipating the distant days when i should be a proctor there, which steerforth pictured in a variety of humorous and whimsical lights, that made us both merry. when we came to our journeys end, he went home, engaging to call upon me next day but one and i drove to lincolns inn fields, where i found my aunt up, and waiting supper.

if i had been round the world since we parted, we could hardly have been better pleased to meet again. my aunt cried outright as she embraced me and said, pretending to laugh, that if my poor mother had been alive, that silly little creature would have shed tears, she had no doubt.

so you have left mr. dick behind, aunt said i. i am sorry for that. ah, janet, how do you do

as janet curtsied, hoping i was well, i observed my aunts visage lengthen very much.

i am sorry for it, too, said my aunt, rubbing her nose. i have had no peace of mind, trot, since i have been here.

before i could ask why, she told me.

i am convinced, said my aunt, laying her hand with melancholy firmness on the table, that dicks character is not a character to keep the donkeys off. i am confident he wants strength of purpose.

i ought to have left janet at home, instead, and then my mind might perhaps have been at ease. if ever there was a donkey trespassing on my green, said my aunt, with emphasis, there was one this afternoon at four oclock. a cold feeling came over me from head to foot, and i know it was a donkey

i tried to comfort her on this point, but she rejected consolation.

it was a donkey, said my aunt and it was the one with the stumpy tail which that murdering sister of a woman rode, when she came to my house. this had been, ever since, the only name my aunt knew for miss murdstone. if there is any donkey in dover, whose audacity it is harder to me to bear than anothers, that, said my aunt, striking the table, is the animal

janet ventured to suggest that my aunt might be disturbing herself unnecessarily, and that she believed the donkey in question was then engaged in the sandandgravel line of business, and was not available for purposes of trespass. but my aunt wouldnt hear of it.

supper was comfortably served and hot, though my aunts rooms were very high up  whether that she might have more stone stairs for her money, or might be nearer to the door in the roof, i dont know  and consisted of a roast fowl, a steak, and some vegetables, to all of which i did ample justice, and which were all excellent.

but my aunt had her own ideas concerning london provision, and ate but little.

i suppose this unfortunate fowl was born and brought up in a cellar, said my aunt, and never took the air except on a hackney coachstand. i hope the steak may be beef, but i dont believe it.

nothings genuine in the place, in my opinion, but the dirt.

dont you think the fowl may have come out of the country, aunt

i hinted.

certainly not, returned my aunt. it would be no pleasure to a london tradesman to sell anything which was what he pretended it was.

i did not venture to controvert this opinion, but i made a good supper, which it greatly satisfied her to see me do. when the table was cleared, janet assisted her to arrange her hair, to put on her nightcap, which was of a smarter construction than usual in case of fire, my aunt said, and to fold her gown back over her knees, these being her usual preparations for warming herself before going to bed. i then made her, according to certain established regulations from which no deviation, however slight, could ever be permitted, a glass of hot wine and water, and a slice of toast cut into long thin strips. with these accompaniments we were left alone to finish the evening, my aunt sitting opposite to me drinking her wine and water soaking her strips of toast in it, one by one, before eating them and looking benignantly on me, from among the borders of her nightcap.

well, trot, she began, what do you think of the proctor plan

or have you not begun to think about it yet

i have thought a good deal about it, my dear aunt, and i have talked a good deal about it with steerforth. i like it very much indeed. i like it exceedingly.

come said my aunt. thats cheering

i have only one difficulty, aunt.

say what it is, trot, she returned.

why, i want to ask, aunt, as this seems, from what i understand, to be a limited profession, whether my entrance into it would not be very expensive

it will cost, returned my aunt, to article you, just a thousand pounds.

now, my dear aunt, said i, drawing my chair nearer, i am uneasy in my mind about that. its a large sum of money. you have expended a great deal on my education, and have always been as liberal to me in all things as it was possible to be. you have been the soul of generosity. surely there are some ways in which i might begin life with hardly any outlay, and yet begin with a good hope of getting on by resolution and exertion. are you sure that it would not be better to try that course are you certain that you can afford to part with so much money, and that it is right that it should be so expended i only ask you, my second mother, to consider. are you certain

my aunt finished eating the piece of toast on which she was then engaged, looking me full in the face all the while and then setting her glass on the chimneypiece, and folding her hands upon her folded skirts, replied as follows trot, my child, if i have any object in life, it is to provide for your being a good, a sensible, and a happy man. i am bent upon it  so is dick. i should like some people that i know to hear dicks conversation on the subject. its sagacity is wonderful. but no one knows the resources of that mans intellect, except myself

she stopped for a moment to take my hand between hers, and went on its in vain, trot, to recall the past, unless it works some influence upon the present. perhaps i might have been better friends with your poor father. perhaps i might have been better friends with that poor child your mother, even after your sister betsey trotwood disappointed me. when you came to me, a little runaway boy, all dusty and wayworn, perhaps i thought so. from that time until now, trot, you have ever been a credit to me and a pride and a pleasure. i have no other claim upon my means at least  here to my surprise she hesitated, and was confused  no, i have no other claim upon my means  and you are my adopted child.

only be a loving child to me in my age, and bear with my whims and fancies and you will do more for an old woman whose prime of life was not so happy or conciliating as it might have been, than ever that old woman did for you.

it was the first time i had heard my aunt refer to her past history. there was a magnanimity in her quiet way of doing so, and of dismissing it, which would have exalted her in my respect and affection, if anything could.

all is agreed and understood between us, now, trot, said my aunt, and we need talk of this no more. give me a kiss, and well go to the commons after breakfast tomorrow.

we had a long chat by the fire before we went to bed. i slept in a room on the same floor with my aunts, and was a little disturbed in the course of the night by her knocking at my door as often as she was agitated by a distant sound of hackneycoaches or marketcarts, and inquiring, if i heard the engines but towards morning she slept better, and suffered me to do so too.

at about midday, we set out for the office of messrs spenlow and jorkins, in doctors commons. my aunt, who had this other general opinion in reference to london, that every man she saw was a pickpocket, gave me her purse to carry for her, which had ten guineas in it and some silver.

we made a pause at the toy shop in fleet street, to see the giants of saint dunstans strike upon the bells  we had timed our going, so as to catch them at it, at twelve oclock  and then went on towards ludgate hill, and st. pauls churchyard. we were crossing to the former place, when i found that my aunt greatly accelerated her speed, and looked frightened. i observed, at the same time, that a lowering illdressed man who had stopped and stared at us in passing, a little before, was coming so close after us as to brush against her.

trot my dear trot cried my aunt, in a terrified whisper, and pressing my arm. i dont know what i am to do.

dont be alarmed, said i. theres nothing to be afraid of.

step into a shop, and ill soon get rid of this fellow.

no, no, child she returned. dont speak to him for the world.

i entreat, i order you

good heaven, aunt said i. he is nothing but a sturdy beggar.

you dont know what he is replied my aunt. you dont know who he is you dont know what you say

we had stopped in an empty doorway, while this was passing, and he had stopped too.

dont look at him said my aunt, as i turned my head indignantly, but get me a coach, my dear, and wait for me in st. pauls churchyard.

wait for you i replied.

yes, rejoined my aunt. i must go alone. i must go with him.

with him, aunt this man

i am in my senses, she replied, and i tell you i must. get mea coach

however much astonished i might be, i was sensible that i had no right to refuse compliance with such a peremptory command. i hurried away a few paces, and called a hackneychariot which was passing empty. almost before i could let down the steps, my aunt sprang in, i dont know how, and the man followed. she waved her hand to me to go away, so earnestly, that, all confounded as i was, i turned from them at once. in doing so, i heard her say to the coachman, drive anywhere drive straight on and presently the chariot passed me, going up the hill.

what mr. dick had told me, and what i had supposed to be a delusion of his, now came into my mind. i could not doubt that this person was the person of whom he had made such mysterious mention, though what the nature of his hold upon my aunt could possibly be, i was quite unable to imagine. after half an hours cooling in the churchyard, i saw the chariot coming back. the driver stopped beside me, and my aunt was sitting in it alone.

she had not yet sufficiently recovered from her agitation to be quite prepared for the visit we had to make. she desired me to get into the chariot, and to tell the coachman to drive slowly up and down a little while. she said no more, except, my dear child, never ask me what it was, and dont refer to it, until she had perfectly regained her composure, when she told me she was quite herself now, and we might get out. on her giving me her purse to pay the driver, i found that all the guineas were gone, and only the loose silver remained.

doctors commons was approached by a little low archway. before we had taken many paces down the street beyond it, the noise of the city seemed to melt, as if by magic, into a softened distance. a few dull courts and narrow ways brought us to the skylighted offices of spenlow and jorkins in the vestibule of which temple, accessible to pilgrims without the ceremony of knocking, three or four clerks were at work as copyists. one of these, a little dry man, sitting by himself, who wore a stiff brown wig that looked as if it were made of gingerbread, rose to receive my aunt, and show us into mr. spenlows room.

mr. spenlows in court, maam, said the dry man its an arches day but its close by, and ill send for him directly.

as we were left to look about us while mr. spenlow was fetched, i availed myself of the opportunity. the furniture of the room was oldfashioned and dusty and the green baize on the top of the writingtable had lost all its colour, and was as withered and pale as an old pauper. there were a great many bundles of papers on it, some endorsed as allegations, and some to my surprise as libels, and some as being in the consistory court, and some in the arches court, and some in the prerogative court, and some in the admiralty court, and some in the delegates court giving me occasion to wonder much, how many courts there might be in the gross, and how long it would take to understand them all. besides these, there were sundry immense manuscript books of evidence taken on affidavit, strongly bound, and tied together in massive sets, a set to each cause, as if every cause were a history in ten or twenty volumes. all this looked tolerably expensive, i thought, and gave me an agreeable notion of a proctors business. i was casting my eyes with increasing complacency over these and many similar objects, when hasty footsteps were heard in the room outside, and mr. spenlow, in a black gown trimmed with white fur, came hurrying in, taking off his hat as he came.

he was a little lighthaired gentleman, with undeniable boots, and the stiffest of white cravats and shirtcollars. he was buttoned up, mighty trim and tight, and must have taken a great deal of pains with his whiskers, which were accurately curled. his gold watchchain was so massive, that a fancy came across me, that he ought to have a sinewy golden arm, to draw it out with, like those which are put up over the goldbeaters shops. he was got up with such care, and was so stiff, that he could hardly bend himself being obliged, when he glanced at some papers on his desk, after sitting down in his chair, to move his whole body, from the bottom of his spine, like punch.

i had previously been presented by my aunt, and had been courteously received. he now said and so, mr. copperfield, you think of entering into our profession i casually mentioned to miss trotwood, when i had the pleasure of an interview with her the other day,  with another inclination of his body  punch again  that there was a vacancy here. miss trotwood was good enough to mention that she had a nephew who was her peculiar care, and for whom she was seeking to provide genteelly in life. that nephew, i believe, i have now the pleasure of  punch again.

i bowed my acknowledgements, and said, my aunt had mentioned to me that there was that opening, and that i believed i should like it very much. that i was strongly inclined to like it, and had taken immediately to the proposal. that i could not absolutely pledge myself to like it, until i knew something more about it. that although it was little else than a matter of form, i presumed i should have an opportunity of trying how i liked it, before i bound myself to it irrevocably.

oh surely surely said mr. spenlow. we always, in this house, propose a month  an initiatory month. i should be happy, myself, to propose two months  three  an indefinite period, in fact  but i have a partner. mr. jorkins.

and the premium, sir, i returned, is a thousand pounds

and the premium, stamp included, is a thousand pounds, said mr.

spenlow. as i have mentioned to miss trotwood, i am actuated by no mercenary considerations few men are less so, i believe but mr. jorkins has his opinions on these subjects, and i am bound to respect mr. jorkinss opinions. mr. jorkins thinks a thousand pounds too little, in short.

i suppose, sir, said i, still desiring to spare my aunt, that it is not the custom here, if an articled clerk were particularly useful, and made himself a perfect master of his profession  i could not help blushing, this looked so like praising myself  i suppose it is not the custom, in the later years of his time, to allow him any 

mr. spenlow, by a great effort, just lifted his head far enough out of his cravat to shake it, and answered, anticipating the word salary no. i will not say what consideration i might give to that point myself, mr. copperfield, if i were unfettered. mr. jorkins is immovable.

i was quite dismayed by the idea of this terrible jorkins. but i found out afterwards that he was a mild man of a heavy temperament, whose place in the business was to keep himself in the background, and be constantly exhibited by name as the most obdurate and ruthless of men. if a clerk wanted his salary raised, mr. jorkins wouldnt listen to such a proposition. if a client were slow to settle his bill of costs, mr. jorkins was resolved to have it paid and however painful these things might be and always were to the feelings of mr. spenlow, mr. jorkins would have his bond. the heart and hand of the good angel spenlow would have been always open, but for the restraining demon jorkins. as i have grown older, i think i have had experience of some other houses doing business on the principle of spenlow and jorkins

it was settled that i should begin my months probation as soon as i pleased, and that my aunt need neither remain in town nor return at its expiration, as the articles of agreement, of which i was to be the subject, could easily be sent to her at home for her signature. when we had got so far, mr. spenlow offered to take me into court then and there, and show me what sort of place it was.

as i was willing enough to know, we went out with this object, leaving my aunt behind who would trust herself, she said, in no such place, and who, i think, regarded all courts of law as a sort of powdermills that might blow up at any time.

mr. spenlow conducted me through a paved courtyard formed of grave brick houses, which i inferred, from the doctors names upon the doors, to be the official abidingplaces of the learned advocates of whom steerforth had told me and into a large dull room, not unlike a chapel to my thinking, on the left hand. the upper part of this room was fenced off from the rest and there, on the two sides of a raised platform of the horseshoe form, sitting on easy oldfashioned diningroom chairs, were sundry gentlemen in red gowns and grey wigs, whom i found to be the doctors aforesaid.

blinking over a little desk like a pulpitdesk, in the curve of the horseshoe, was an old gentleman, whom, if i had seen him in an aviary, i should certainly have taken for an owl, but who, i learned, was the presiding judge. in the space within the horseshoe, lower than these, that is to say, on about the level of the floor, were sundry other gentlemen, of mr. spenlows rank, and dressed like him in black gowns with white fur upon them, sitting at a long green table. their cravats were in general stiff, i thought, and their looks haughty but in this last respect i presently conceived i had done them an injustice, for when two or three of them had to rise and answer a question of the presiding dignitary, i never saw anything more sheepish. the public, represented by a boy with a comforter, and a shabbygenteel man secretly eating crumbs out of his coat pockets, was warming itself at a stove in the centre of the court. the languid stillness of the place was only broken by the chirping of this fire and by the voice of one of the doctors, who was wandering slowly through a perfect library of evidence, and stopping to put up, from time to time, at little roadside inns of argument on the journey.

altogether, i have never, on any occasion, made one at such a cosey, dosey, oldfashioned, timeforgotten, sleepyheaded little familyparty in all my life and i felt it would be quite a soothing opiate to belong to it in any character  except perhaps as a suitor.

very well satisfied with the dreamy nature of this retreat, i informed mr. spenlow that i had seen enough for that time, and we rejoined my aunt in company with whom i presently departed from the commons, feeling very young when i went out of spenlow and jorkinss, on account of the clerks poking one another with their pens to point me out.

we arrived at lincolns inn fields without any new adventures, except encountering an unlucky donkey in a costermongers cart, who suggested painful associations to my aunt. we had another long talk about my plans, when we were safely housed and as i knew she was anxious to get home, and, between fire, food, and pickpockets, could never be considered at her ease for halfanhour in london, i urged her not to be uncomfortable on my account, but to leave me to take care of myself.

i have not been here a week tomorrow, without considering that too, my dear, she returned. there is a furnished little set of chambers to be let in the adelphi, trot, which ought to suit you to a marvel.

with this brief introduction, she produced from her pocket an advertisement, carefully cut out of a newspaper, setting forth that in buckingham street in the adelphi there was to be let furnished, with a view of the river, a singularly desirable, and compact set of chambers, forming a genteel residence for a young gentleman, a member of one of the inns of court, or otherwise, with immediate possession. terms moderate, and could be taken for a month only, if required.

why, this is the very thing, aunt said i, flushed with the possible dignity of living in chambers.

then come, replied my aunt, immediately resuming the bonnet she had a minute before laid aside. well go and look at em.

away we went. the advertisement directed us to apply to mrs. crupp on the premises, and we rung the area bell, which we supposed to communicate with mrs. crupp. it was not until we had rung three or four times that we could prevail on mrs. crupp to communicate with us, but at last she appeared, being a stout lady with a flounce of flannel petticoat below a nankeen gown.

let us see these chambers of yours, if you please, maam, said my aunt.

for this gentleman said mrs. crupp, feeling in her pocket for her keys.

yes, for my nephew, said my aunt.

and a sweet set they is for sich said mrs. crupp.

so we went upstairs.

they were on the top of the house  a great point with my aunt, being near the fireescape  and consisted of a little halfblind entry where you could see hardly anything, a little stoneblind pantry where you could see nothing at all, a sittingroom, and a bedroom. the furniture was rather faded, but quite good enough for me and, sure enough, the river was outside the windows.

as i was delighted with the place, my aunt and mrs. crupp withdrew into the pantry to discuss the terms, while i remained on the sittingroom sofa, hardly daring to think it possible that i could be destined to live in such a noble residence. after a single combat of some duration they returned, and i saw, to my joy, both in mrs. crupps countenance and in my aunts, that the deed was done.

is it the last occupants furniture inquired my aunt.

yes, it is, maam, said mrs. crupp.

whats become of him asked my aunt.

mrs. crupp was taken with a troublesome cough, in the midst of which she articulated with much difficulty. he was took ill here, maam, and  ugh ugh ugh dear me  and he died

hey what did he die of asked my aunt.

well, maam, he died of drink, said mrs. crupp, in confidence.

and smoke.

smoke you dont mean chimneys said my aunt.

no, maam, returned mrs. crupp. cigars and pipes.

thats not catching, trot, at any rate, remarked my aunt, turning to me.

no, indeed, said i.

in short, my aunt, seeing how enraptured i was with the premises, took them for a month, with leave to remain for twelve months when that time was out. mrs. crupp was to find linen, and to cook every other necessary was already provided and mrs. crupp expressly intimated that she should always yearn towards me as a son. i was to take possession the day after tomorrow, and mrs.

crupp said, thank heaven she had now found summun she could care for

on our way back, my aunt informed me how she confidently trusted that the life i was now to lead would make me firm and selfreliant, which was all i wanted. she repeated this several times next day, in the intervals of our arranging for the transmission of my clothes and books from mr. wickfields relative to which, and to all my late holiday, i wrote a long letter to agnes, of which my aunt took charge, as she was to leave on the succeeding day. not to lengthen these particulars, i need only add, that she made a handsome provision for all my possible wants during my month of trial that steerforth, to my great disappointment and hers too, did not make his appearance before she went away that i saw her safely seated in the dover coach, exulting in the coming discomfiture of the vagrant donkeys, with janet at her side and that when the coach was gone, i turned my face to the adelphi, pondering on the old days when i used to roam about its subterranean arches, and on the happy changes which had brought me to the surface.



chapter 

my first dissipation

it was a wonderfully fine thing to have that lofty castle to myself, and to feel, when i shut my outer door, like robinson crusoe, when he had got into his fortification, and pulled his ladder up after him. it was a wonderfully fine thing to walk about town with the key of my house in my pocket, and to know that i could ask any fellow to come home, and make quite sure of its being inconvenient to nobody, if it were not so to me. it was a wonderfully fine thing to let myself in and out, and to come and go without a word to anyone, and to ring mrs. crupp up, gasping, from the depths of the earth, when i wanted her  and when she was disposed to come. all this, i say, was wonderfully fine but i must say, too, that there were times when it was very dreary.

it was fine in the morning, particularly in the fine mornings. it looked a very fresh, free life, by daylight still fresher, and more free, by sunlight. but as the day declined, the life seemed to go down too. i dont know how it was it seldom looked well by candlelight. i wanted somebody to talk to, then. i missed agnes.

i found a tremendous blank, in the place of that smiling repository of my confidence. mrs. crupp appeared to be a long way off. i thought about my predecessor, who had died of drink and smoke and i could have wished he had been so good as to live, and not bother me with his decease.

after two days and nights, i felt as if i had lived there for a year, and yet i was not an hour older, but was quite as much tormented by my own youthfulness as ever.

steerforth not yet appearing, which induced me to apprehend that he must be ill, i left the commons early on the third day, and walked out to highgate. mrs. steerforth was very glad to see me, and said that he had gone away with one of his oxford friends to see another who lived near st. albans, but that she expected him to return tomorrow. i was so fond of him, that i felt quite jealous of his oxford friends.

as she pressed me to stay to dinner, i remained, and i believe we talked about nothing but him all day. i told her how much the people liked him at yarmouth, and what a delightful companion he had been. miss dartle was full of hints and mysterious questions, but took a great interest in all our proceedings there, and said, was it really though and so forth, so often, that she got everything out of me she wanted to know. her appearance was exactly what i have described it, when i first saw her but the society of the two ladies was so agreeable, and came so natural to me, that i felt myself falling a little in love with her. i could not help thinking, several times in the course of the evening, and particularly when i walked home at night, what delightful company she would be in buckingham street.

i was taking my coffee and roll in the morning, before going to the commons  and i may observe in this place that it is surprising how much coffee mrs. crupp used, and how weak it was, considering  when steerforth himself walked in, to my unbounded joy.

my dear steerforth, cried i, i began to think i should never see you again

i was carried off, by force of arms, said steerforth, the very next morning after i got home. why, daisy, what a rare old bachelor you are here

i showed him over the establishment, not omitting the pantry, with no little pride, and he commended it highly. i tell you what, old boy, he added, i shall make quite a townhouse of this place, unless you give me notice to quit.

this was a delightful hearing. i told him if he waited for that, he would have to wait till doomsday.

but you shall have some breakfast said i, with my hand on the bellrope, and mrs. crupp shall make you some fresh coffee, and ill toast you some bacon in a bachelors dutchoven, that i have got here.

no, no said steerforth. dont ring i cant i am going to breakfast with one of these fellows who is at the piazza hotel, in covent garden.

but youll come back to dinner said i.

i cant, upon my life. theres nothing i should like better, but i must remain with these two fellows. we are all three off together tomorrow morning.

then bring them here to dinner, i returned. do you think they would come

oh they would come fast enough, said steerforth but we should inconvenience you. you had better come and dine with us somewhere.

i would not by any means consent to this, for it occurred to me that i really ought to have a little housewarming, and that there never could be a better opportunity. i had a new pride in my rooms after his approval of them, and burned with a desire to develop their utmost resources. i therefore made him promise positively in the names of his two friends, and we appointed six oclock as the dinnerhour.

when he was gone, i rang for mrs. crupp, and acquainted her with my desperate design. mrs. crupp said, in the first place, of course it was well known she couldnt be expected to wait, but she knew a handy young man, who she thought could be prevailed upon to do it, and whose terms would be five shillings, and what i pleased. i said, certainly we would have him. next mrs. crupp said it was clear she couldnt be in two places at once which i felt to be reasonable, and that a young gal stationed in the pantry with a bedroom candle, there never to desist from washing plates, would be indispensable. i said, what would be the expense of this young female and mrs. crupp said she supposed eighteenpence would neither make me nor break me. i said i supposed not and that was settled. then mrs. crupp said, now about the dinner.

it was a remarkable instance of want of forethought on the part of the ironmonger who had made mrs. crupps kitchen fireplace, that it was capable of cooking nothing but chops and mashed potatoes. as to a fishkittle, mrs. crupp said, well would i only come and look at the range she couldnt say fairer than that. would i come and look at it as i should not have been much the wiser if i had looked at it, i declined, and said, never mind fish. but mrs.

crupp said, dont say that oysters was in, why not them so that was settled. mrs. crupp then said what she would recommend would be this. a pair of hot roast fowls  from the pastrycooks a dish of stewed beef, with vegetables  from the pastrycooks two little corner things, as a raised pie and a dish of kidneys  from the pastrycooks a tart, and if i liked a shape of jelly  from the pastrycooks. this, mrs. crupp said, would leave her at full liberty to concentrate her mind on the potatoes, and to serve up the cheese and celery as she could wish to see it done.

i acted on mrs. crupps opinion, and gave the order at the pastrycooks myself. walking along the strand, afterwards, and observing a hard mottled substance in the window of a ham and beef shop, which resembled marble, but was labelled mock turtle, i went in and bought a slab of it, which i have since seen reason to believe would have sufficed for fifteen people. this preparation, mrs. crupp, after some difficulty, consented to warm up and it shrunk so much in a liquid state, that we found it what steerforth called rather a tight fit for four.

these preparations happily completed, i bought a little dessert in covent garden market, and gave a rather extensive order at a retail winemerchants in that vicinity. when i came home in the afternoon, and saw the bottles drawn up in a square on the pantry floor, they looked so numerous though there were two missing, which made mrs. crupp very uncomfortable, that i was absolutely frightened at them.

one of steerforths friends was named grainger, and the other markham. they were both very gay and lively fellows grainger, something older than steerforth markham, youthfullooking, and i should say not more than twenty. i observed that the latter always spoke of himself indefinitely, as a man, and seldom or never in the first person singular.

a man might get on very well here, mr. copperfield, said markham  meaning himself.

its not a bad situation, said i, and the rooms are really commodious.

i hope you have both brought appetites with you said steerforth.

upon my honour, returned markham, town seems to sharpen a mans appetite. a man is hungry all day long. a man is perpetually eating.

being a little embarrassed at first, and feeling much too young to preside, i made steerforth take the head of the table when dinner was announced, and seated myself opposite to him. everything was very good we did not spare the wine and he exerted himself so brilliantly to make the thing pass off well, that there was no pause in our festivity. i was not quite such good company during dinner as i could have wished to be, for my chair was opposite the door, and my attention was distracted by observing that the handy young man went out of the room very often, and that his shadow always presented itself, immediately afterwards, on the wall of the entry, with a bottle at its mouth. the young gal likewise occasioned me some uneasiness not so much by neglecting to wash the plates, as by breaking them. for being of an inquisitive disposition, and unable to confine herself as her positive instructions were to the pantry, she was constantly peering in at us, and constantly imagining herself detected in which belief, she several times retired upon the plates with which she had carefully paved the floor, and did a great deal of destruction.

these, however, were small drawbacks, and easily forgotten when the cloth was cleared, and the dessert put on the table at which period of the entertainment the handy young man was discovered to be speechless. giving him private directions to seek the society of mrs. crupp, and to remove the young gal to the basement also, i abandoned myself to enjoyment.

i began, by being singularly cheerful and lighthearted all sorts of halfforgotten things to talk about, came rushing into my mind, and made me hold forth in a most unwonted manner. i laughed heartily at my own jokes, and everybody elses called steerforth to order for not passing the wine made several engagements to go to oxford announced that i meant to have a dinnerparty exactly like that, once a week, until further notice and madly took so much snuff out of graingers box, that i was obliged to go into the pantry, and have a private fit of sneezing ten minutes long.

i went on, by passing the wine faster and faster yet, and continually starting up with a corkscrew to open more wine, long before any was needed. i proposed steerforths health. i said he was my dearest friend, the protector of my boyhood, and the companion of my prime. i said i was delighted to propose his health. i said i owed him more obligations than i could ever repay, and held him in a higher admiration than i could ever express. i finished by saying, ill give you steerforth god bless him hurrah we gave him three times three, and another, and a good one to finish with. i broke my glass in going round the table to shake hands with him, and i said in two words steerforth  youretheguidingstarofmyexistence.

i went on, by finding suddenly that somebody was in the middle of a song. markham was the singer, and he sang when the heart of a man is depressed with care. he said, when he had sung it, he would give us woman i took objection to that, and i couldnt allow it. i said it was not a respectful way of proposing the toast, and i would never permit that toast to be drunk in my house otherwise than as the ladies i was very high with him, mainly i think because i saw steerforth and grainger laughing at me  or at him  or at both of us. he said a man was not to be dictated to.

i said a man was. he said a man was not to be insulted, then. i said he was right there  never under my roof, where the lares were sacred, and the laws of hospitality paramount. he said it was no derogation from a mans dignity to confess that i was a devilish good fellow. i instantly proposed his health.

somebody was smoking. we were all smoking. i was smoking, and trying to suppress a rising tendency to shudder. steerforth had made a speech about me, in the course of which i had been affected almost to tears. i returned thanks, and hoped the present company would dine with me tomorrow, and the day after  each day at five oclock, that we might enjoy the pleasures of conversation and society through a long evening. i felt called upon to propose an individual. i would give them my aunt. miss betsey trotwood, the best of her sex

somebody was leaning out of my bedroom window, refreshing his forehead against the cool stone of the parapet, and feeling the air upon his face. it was myself. i was addressing myself as copperfield, and saying, why did you try to smoke you might have known you couldnt do it. now, somebody was unsteadily contemplating his features in the lookingglass. that was i too.

i was very pale in the lookingglass my eyes had a vacant appearance and my hair  only my hair, nothing else  looked drunk.

somebody said to me, let us go to the theatre, copperfield there was no bedroom before me, but again the jingling table covered with glasses the lamp grainger on my right hand, markham on my left, and steerforth opposite  all sitting in a mist, and a long way off. the theatre to be sure. the very thing. come along but they must excuse me if i saw everybody out first, and turned the lamp off  in case of fire.

owing to some confusion in the dark, the door was gone. i was feeling for it in the windowcurtains, when steerforth, laughing, took me by the arm and led me out. we went downstairs, one behind another. near the bottom, somebody fell, and rolled down.

somebody else said it was copperfield. i was angry at that false report, until, finding myself on my back in the passage, i began to think there might be some foundation for it.

a very foggy night, with great rings round the lamps in the streets there was an indistinct talk of its being wet. i considered it frosty. steerforth dusted me under a lamppost, and put my hat into shape, which somebody produced from somewhere in a most extraordinary manner, for i hadnt had it on before.

steerforth then said, you are all right, copperfield, are you not and i told him, neverberrer.

a man, sitting in a pigeonholeplace, looked out of the fog, and took money from somebody, inquiring if i was one of the gentlemen paid for, and appearing rather doubtful as i remember in the glimpse i had of him whether to take the money for me or not.

shortly afterwards, we were very high up in a very hot theatre, looking down into a large pit, that seemed to me to smoke the people with whom it was crammed were so indistinct. there was a great stage, too, looking very clean and smooth after the streets and there were people upon it, talking about something or other, but not at all intelligibly. there was an abundance of bright lights, and there was music, and there were ladies down in the boxes, and i dont know what more. the whole building looked to me as if it were learning to swim it conducted itself in such an unaccountable manner, when i tried to steady it.

on somebodys motion, we resolved to go downstairs to the dressboxes, where the ladies were. a gentleman lounging, full dressed, on a sofa, with an operaglass in his hand, passed before my view, and also my own figure at full length in a glass. then i was being ushered into one of these boxes, and found myself saying something as i sat down, and people about me crying silence to somebody, and ladies casting indignant glances at me, and  what yes  agnes, sitting on the seat before me, in the same box, with a lady and gentleman beside her, whom i didnt know. i see her face now, better than i did then, i dare say, with its indelible look of regret and wonder turned upon me.

agnes i said, thickly, lorblessmer agnes

hush pray she answered, i could not conceive why. you disturb the company. look at the stage

i tried, on her injunction, to fix it, and to hear something of what was going on there, but quite in vain. i looked at her again by and by, and saw her shrink into her corner, and put her gloved hand to her forehead.

agnes i said. imafraidyourenorwell.

yes, yes. do not mind me, trotwood, she returned. listen are you going away soon

amigoarawaysoo i repeated.

yes.

i had a stupid intention of replying that i was going to wait, to hand her downstairs. i suppose i expressed it, somehow for after she had looked at me attentively for a little while, she appeared to understand, and replied in a low tone i know you will do as i ask you, if i tell you i am very earnest in it. go away now, trotwood, for my sake, and ask your friends to take you home.

she had so far improved me, for the time, that though i was angry with her, i felt ashamed, and with a short goori which i intended for good night got up and went away. they followed, and i stepped at once out of the boxdoor into my bedroom, where only steerforth was with me, helping me to undress, and where i was by turns telling him that agnes was my sister, and adjuring him to bring the corkscrew, that i might open another bottle of wine.

how somebody, lying in my bed, lay saying and doing all this over again, at cross purposes, in a feverish dream all night  the bed a rocking sea that was never still how, as that somebody slowly settled down into myself, did i begin to parch, and feel as if my outer covering of skin were a hard board my tongue the bottom of an empty kettle, furred with long service, and burning up over a slow fire the palms of my hands, hot plates of metal which no ice could cool

but the agony of mind, the remorse, and shame i felt when i became conscious next day my horror of having committed a thousand offences i had forgotten, and which nothing could ever expiate  my recollection of that indelible look which agnes had given me  the torturing impossibility of communicating with her, not knowing, beast that i was, how she came to be in london, or where she stayed  my disgust of the very sight of the room where the revel had been held  my racking head  the smell of smoke, the sight of glasses, the impossibility of going out, or even getting up oh, what a day it was

oh, what an evening, when i sat down by my fire to a basin of mutton broth, dimpled all over with fat, and thought i was going the way of my predecessor, and should succeed to his dismal story as well as to his chambers, and had half a mind to rush express to dover and reveal all what an evening, when mrs. crupp, coming in to take away the brothbasin, produced one kidney on a cheeseplate as the entire remains of yesterdays feast, and i was really inclined to fall upon her nankeen breast and say, in heartfelt penitence, oh, mrs. crupp, mrs. crupp, never mind the broken meats i am very miserable  only that i doubted, even at that pass, if mrs. crupp were quite the sort of woman to confide in



chapter 

good and bad angels

i was going out at my door on the morning after that deplorable day of headache, sickness, and repentance, with an odd confusion in my mind relative to the date of my dinnerparty, as if a body of titans had taken an enormous lever and pushed the day before yesterday some months back, when i saw a ticketporter coming upstairs, with a letter in his hand. he was taking his time about his errand, then but when he saw me on the top of the staircase, looking at him over the banisters, he swung into a trot, and came up panting as if he had run himself into a state of exhaustion.

t. copperfield, esquire, said the ticketporter, touching his hat with his little cane.

i could scarcely lay claim to the name i was so disturbed by the conviction that the letter came from agnes. however, i told him i was t. copperfield, esquire, and he believed it, and gave me the letter, which he said required an answer. i shut him out on the landing to wait for the answer, and went into my chambers again, in such a nervous state that i was fain to lay the letter down on my breakfast table, and familiarize myself with the outside of it a little, before i could resolve to break the seal.

i found, when i did open it, that it was a very kind note, containing no reference to my condition at the theatre. all it said was, my dear trotwood. i am staying at the house of papas agent, mr. waterbrook, in ely place, holborn. will you come and see me today, at any time you like to appoint ever yours affectionately, agnes.

it took me such a long time to write an answer at all to my satisfaction, that i dont know what the ticketporter can have thought, unless he thought i was learning to write. i must have written halfadozen answers at least. i began one, how can i ever hope, my dear agnes, to efface from your remembrance the disgusting impression  there i didnt like it, and then i tore it up. i began another, shakespeare has observed, my dear agnes, how strange it is that a man should put an enemy into his mouth  that reminded me of markham, and it got no farther. i even tried poetry. i began one note, in a sixsyllable line, oh, do not remember  but that associated itself with the fifth of november, and became an absurdity. after many attempts, i wrote, my dear agnes. your letter is like you, and what could i say of it that would be higher praise than that i will come at four oclock.

affectionately and sorrowfully, t.c. with this missive which i was in twenty minds at once about recalling, as soon as it was out of my hands, the ticketporter at last departed.

if the day were half as tremendous to any other professional gentleman in doctors commons as it was to me, i sincerely believe he made some expiation for his share in that rotten old ecclesiastical cheese. although i left the office at half past three, and was prowling about the place of appointment within a few minutes afterwards, the appointed time was exceeded by a full quarter of an hour, according to the clock of st. andrews, holborn, before i could muster up sufficient desperation to pull the private bellhandle let into the lefthand doorpost of mr.

waterbrooks house.

the professional business of mr. waterbrooks establishment was done on the groundfloor, and the genteel business of which there was a good deal in the upper part of the building. i was shown into a pretty but rather close drawingroom, and there sat agnes, netting a purse.

she looked so quiet and good, and reminded me so strongly of my airy fresh school days at canterbury, and the sodden, smoky, stupid wretch i had been the other night, that, nobody being by, i yielded to my selfreproach and shame, and  in short, made a fool of myself. i cannot deny that i shed tears. to this hour i am undecided whether it was upon the whole the wisest thing i could have done, or the most ridiculous.

if it had been anyone but you, agnes, said i, turning away my head, i should not have minded it half so much. but that it should have been you who saw me i almost wish i had been dead, first.

she put her hand  its touch was like no other hand  upon my arm for a moment and i felt so befriended and comforted, that i could not help moving it to my lips, and gratefully kissing it.

sit down, said agnes, cheerfully. dont be unhappy, trotwood.

if you cannot confidently trust me, whom will you trust

ah, agnes i returned. you are my good angel

she smiled rather sadly, i thought, and shook her head.

yes, agnes, my good angel always my good angel

if i were, indeed, trotwood, she returned, there is one thing that i should set my heart on very much.

i looked at her inquiringly but already with a foreknowledge of her meaning.

on warning you, said agnes, with a steady glance, against your bad angel.

my dear agnes, i began, if you mean steerforth 

i do, trotwood, she returned.

then, agnes, you wrong him very much. he my bad angel, or anyones he, anything but a guide, a support, and a friend to me

my dear agnes now, is it not unjust, and unlike you, to judge him from what you saw of me the other night

i do not judge him from what i saw of you the other night, she quietly replied.

from what, then

from many things  trifles in themselves, but they do not seem to me to be so, when they are put together. i judge him, partly from your account of him, trotwood, and your character, and the influence he has over you.

there was always something in her modest voice that seemed to touch a chord within me, answering to that sound alone. it was always earnest but when it was very earnest, as it was now, there was a thrill in it that quite subdued me. i sat looking at her as she cast her eyes down on her work i sat seeming still to listen to her and steerforth, in spite of all my attachment to him, darkened in that tone.

it is very bold in me, said agnes, looking up again, who have lived in such seclusion, and can know so little of the world, to give you my advice so confidently, or even to have this strong opinion. but i know in what it is engendered, trotwood,  in how true a remembrance of our having grown up together, and in how true an interest in all relating to you. it is that which makes me bold. i am certain that what i say is right. i am quite sure it is. i feel as if it were someone else speaking to you, and not i, when i caution you that you have made a dangerous friend.

again i looked at her, again i listened to her after she was silent, and again his image, though it was still fixed in my heart, darkened.

i am not so unreasonable as to expect, said agnes, resuming her usual tone, after a little while, that you will, or that you can, at once, change any sentiment that has become a conviction to you least of all a sentiment that is rooted in your trusting disposition. you ought not hastily to do that. i only ask you, trotwood, if you ever think of me  i mean, with a quiet smile, for i was going to interrupt her, and she knew why, as often as you think of me  to think of what i have said. do you forgive me for all this

i will forgive you, agnes, i replied, when you come to do steerforth justice, and to like him as well as i do.

not until then said agnes.

i saw a passing shadow on her face when i made this mention of him, but she returned my smile, and we were again as unreserved in our mutual confidence as of old.

and when, agnes, said i, will you forgive me the other night

when i recall it, said agnes.

she would have dismissed the subject so, but i was too full of it to allow that, and insisted on telling her how it happened that i had disgraced myself, and what chain of accidental circumstances had had the theatre for its final link. it was a great relief to me to do this, and to enlarge on the obligation that i owed to steerforth for his care of me when i was unable to take care of myself.

you must not forget, said agnes, calmly changing the conversation as soon as i had concluded, that you are always to tell me, not only when you fall into trouble, but when you fall in love. who has succeeded to miss larkins, trotwood

no one, agnes.

someone, trotwood, said agnes, laughing, and holding up her finger.

no, agnes, upon my word there is a lady, certainly, at mrs.

steerforths house, who is very clever, and whom i like to talk to  miss dartle  but i dont adore her.

agnes laughed again at her own penetration, and told me that if i were faithful to her in my confidence she thought she should keep a little register of my violent attachments, with the date, duration, and termination of each, like the table of the reigns of the kings and queens, in the history of england. then she asked me if i had seen uriah.

uriah heep said i. no. is he in london

he comes to the office downstairs, every day, returned agnes.

he was in london a week before me. i am afraid on disagreeable business, trotwood.

on some business that makes you uneasy, agnes, i see, said i.

what can that be

agnes laid aside her work, and replied, folding her hands upon one another, and looking pensively at me out of those beautiful soft eyes of hers i believe he is going to enter into partnership with papa.

what uriah that mean, fawning fellow, worm himself into such promotion i cried, indignantly. have you made no remonstrance about it, agnes consider what a connexion it is likely to be.

you must speak out. you must not allow your father to take such a mad step. you must prevent it, agnes, while theres time.

still looking at me, agnes shook her head while i was speaking, with a faint smile at my warmth and then replied you remember our last conversation about papa it was not long after that  not more than two or three days  when he gave me the first intimation of what i tell you. it was sad to see him struggling between his desire to represent it to me as a matter of choice on his part, and his inability to conceal that it was forced upon him. i felt very sorry.

forced upon him, agnes who forces it upon him

uriah, she replied, after a moments hesitation, has made himself indispensable to papa. he is subtle and watchful. he has mastered papas weaknesses, fostered them, and taken advantage of them, until  to say all that i mean in a word, trotwood,  until papa is afraid of him.

there was more that she might have said more that she knew, or that she suspected i clearly saw. i could not give her pain by asking what it was, for i knew that she withheld it from me, to spare her father. it had long been going on to this, i was sensible yes, i could not but feel, on the least reflection, that it had been going on to this for a long time. i remained silent.

his ascendancy over papa, said agnes, is very great. he professes humility and gratitude  with truth, perhaps i hope so  but his position is really one of power, and i fear he makes a hard use of his power.

i said he was a hound, which, at the moment, was a great satisfaction to me.

at the time i speak of, as the time when papa spoke to me, pursued agnes, he had told papa that he was going away that he was very sorry, and unwilling to leave, but that he had better prospects. papa was very much depressed then, and more bowed down by care than ever you or i have seen him but he seemed relieved by this expedient of the partnership, though at the same time he seemed hurt by it and ashamed of it.

and how did you receive it, agnes

i did, trotwood, she replied, what i hope was right. feeling sure that it was necessary for papas peace that the sacrifice should be made, i entreated him to make it. i said it would lighten the load of his life  i hope it will  and that it would give me increased opportunities of being his companion. oh, trotwood cried agnes, putting her hands before her face, as her tears started on it, i almost feel as if i had been papas enemy, instead of his loving child. for i know how he has altered, in his devotion to me. i know how he has narrowed the circle of his sympathies and duties, in the concentration of his whole mind upon me. i know what a multitude of things he has shut out for my sake, and how his anxious thoughts of me have shadowed his life, and weakened his strength and energy, by turning them always upon one idea. if i could ever set this right if i could ever work out his restoration, as i have so innocently been the cause of his decline

i had never before seen agnes cry. i had seen tears in her eyes when i had brought new honours home from school, and i had seen them there when we last spoke about her father, and i had seen her turn her gentle head aside when we took leave of one another but i had never seen her grieve like this. it made me so sorry that i could only say, in a foolish, helpless manner, pray, agnes, dont

dont, my dear sister

but agnes was too superior to me in character and purpose, as i know well now, whatever i might know or not know then, to be long in need of my entreaties. the beautiful, calm manner, which makes her so different in my remembrance from everybody else, came back again, as if a cloud had passed from a serene sky.

we are not likely to remain alone much longer, said agnes, and while i have an opportunity, let me earnestly entreat you, trotwood, to be friendly to uriah. dont repel him. dont resent as i think you have a general disposition to do what may be uncongenial to you in him. he may not deserve it, for we know no certain ill of him. in any case, think first of papa and me

agnes had no time to say more, for the room door opened, and mrs.

waterbrook, who was a large lady  or who wore a large dress i dont exactly know which, for i dont know which was dress and which was lady  came sailing in. i had a dim recollection of having seen her at the theatre, as if i had seen her in a pale magic lantern but she appeared to remember me perfectly, and still to suspect me of being in a state of intoxication.

finding by degrees, however, that i was sober, and i hope that i was a modest young gentleman, mrs. waterbrook softened towards me considerably, and inquired, firstly, if i went much into the parks, and secondly, if i went much into society. on my replying to both these questions in the negative, it occurred to me that i fell again in her good opinion but she concealed the fact gracefully, and invited me to dinner next day. i accepted the invitation, and took my leave, making a call on uriah in the office as i went out, and leaving a card for him in his absence.

when i went to dinner next day, and on the street door being opened, plunged into a vapourbath of haunch of mutton, i divined that i was not the only guest, for i immediately identified the ticketporter in disguise, assisting the family servant, and waiting at the foot of the stairs to carry up my name. he looked, to the best of his ability, when he asked me for it confidentially, as if he had never seen me before but well did i know him, and well did he know me. conscience made cowards of us both.

i found mr. waterbrook to be a middleaged gentleman, with a short throat, and a good deal of shirtcollar, who only wanted a black nose to be the portrait of a pugdog. he told me he was happy to have the honour of making my acquaintance and when i had paid my homage to mrs. waterbrook, presented me, with much ceremony, to a very awful lady in a black velvet dress, and a great black velvet hat, whom i remember as looking like a near relation of hamlets  say his aunt.

mrs. henry spiker was this ladys name and her husband was there too so cold a man, that his head, instead of being grey, seemed to be sprinkled with hoarfrost. immense deference was shown to the henry spikers, male and female which agnes told me was on account of mr. henry spiker being solicitor to something or to somebody, i forget what or which, remotely connected with the treasury.

i found uriah heep among the company, in a suit of black, and in deep humility. he told me, when i shook hands with him, that he was proud to be noticed by me, and that he really felt obliged to me for my condescension. i could have wished he had been less obliged to me, for he hovered about me in his gratitude all the rest of the evening and whenever i said a word to agnes, was sure, with his shadowless eyes and cadaverous face, to be looking gauntly down upon us from behind.

there were other guests  all iced for the occasion, as it struck me, like the wine. but there was one who attracted my attention before he came in, on account of my hearing him announced as mr.

traddles my mind flew back to salem house and could it be tommy, i thought, who used to draw the skeletons

i looked for mr. traddles with unusual interest. he was a sober, steadylooking young man of retiring manners, with a comic head of hair, and eyes that were rather wide open and he got into an obscure corner so soon, that i had some difficulty in making him out. at length i had a good view of him, and either my vision deceived me, or it was the old unfortunate tommy.

i made my way to mr. waterbrook, and said, that i believed i had the pleasure of seeing an old schoolfellow there.

indeed said mr. waterbrook, surprised. you are too young to have been at school with mr. henry spiker

oh, i dont mean him i returned. i mean the gentleman named traddles.

oh aye, aye indeed said my host, with much diminished interest. possibly.

if its really the same person, said i, glancing towards him, it was at a place called salem house where we were together, and he was an excellent fellow.

oh yes. traddles is a good fellow, returned my host nodding his head with an air of toleration. traddles is quite a good fellow.

its a curious coincidence, said i.

it is really, returned my host, quite a coincidence, that traddles should be here at all as traddles was only invited this morning, when the place at table, intended to be occupied by mrs.

henry spikers brother, became vacant, in consequence of his indisposition. a very gentlemanly man, mrs. henry spikers brother, mr. copperfield.

i murmured an assent, which was full of feeling, considering that i knew nothing at all about him and i inquired what mr. traddles was by profession.

traddles, returned mr. waterbrook, is a young man reading for the bar. yes. he is quite a good fellow  nobodys enemy but his own.

is he his own enemy said i, sorry to hear this.

well, returned mr. waterbrook, pursing up his mouth, and playing with his watchchain, in a comfortable, prosperous sort of way. i should say he was one of those men who stand in their own light.

yes, i should say he would never, for example, be worth five hundred pound. traddles was recommended to me by a professional friend. oh yes. yes. he has a kind of talent for drawing briefs, and stating a case in writing, plainly. i am able to throw something in traddless way, in the course of the year something  for him  considerable. oh yes. yes.

i was much impressed by the extremely comfortable and satisfied manner in which mr. waterbrook delivered himself of this little word yes, every now and then. there was wonderful expression in it. it completely conveyed the idea of a man who had been born, not to say with a silver spoon, but with a scalingladder, and had gone on mounting all the heights of life one after another, until now he looked, from the top of the fortifications, with the eye of a philosopher and a patron, on the people down in the trenches.

my reflections on this theme were still in progress when dinner was announced. mr. waterbrook went down with hamlets aunt. mr. henry spiker took mrs. waterbrook. agnes, whom i should have liked to take myself, was given to a simpering fellow with weak legs.

uriah, traddles, and i, as the junior part of the company, went down last, how we could. i was not so vexed at losing agnes as i might have been, since it gave me an opportunity of making myself known to traddles on the stairs, who greeted me with great fervour while uriah writhed with such obtrusive satisfaction and selfabasement, that i could gladly have pitched him over the banisters.

traddles and i were separated at table, being billeted in two remote corners he in the glare of a red velvet lady i, in the gloom of hamlets aunt. the dinner was very long, and the conversation was about the aristocracy  and blood. mrs.

waterbrook repeatedly told us, that if she had a weakness, it was blood.

it occurred to me several times that we should have got on better, if we had not been quite so genteel. we were so exceedingly genteel, that our scope was very limited. a mr. and mrs. gulpidge were of the party, who had something to do at secondhand at least, mr. gulpidge had with the law business of the bank and what with the bank, and what with the treasury, we were as exclusive as the court circular. to mend the matter, hamlets aunt had the family failing of indulging in soliloquy, and held forth in a desultory manner, by herself, on every topic that was introduced.

these were few enough, to be sure but as we always fell back upon blood, she had as wide a field for abstract speculation as her nephew himself.

we might have been a party of ogres, the conversation assumed such a sanguine complexion.

i confess i am of mrs. waterbrooks opinion, said mr. waterbrook, with his wineglass at his eye. other things are all very well in their way, but give me blood

oh there is nothing, observed hamlets aunt, so satisfactory to one there is nothing that is so much ones beauideal of  of all that sort of thing, speaking generally. there are some low minds not many, i am happy to believe, but there are some that would prefer to do what i should call bow down before idols.

positively idols before service, intellect, and so on. but these are intangible points. blood is not so. we see blood in a nose, and we know it. we meet with it in a chin, and we say, there it is thats blood it is an actual matter of fact. we point it out. it admits of no doubt.

the simpering fellow with the weak legs, who had taken agnes down, stated the question more decisively yet, i thought.

oh, you know, deuce take it, said this gentleman, looking round the board with an imbecile smile, we cant forego blood, you know.

we must have blood, you know. some young fellows, you know, may be a little behind their station, perhaps, in point of education and behaviour, and may go a little wrong, you know, and get themselves and other people into a variety of fixes  and all that  but deuce take it, its delightful to reflect that theyve got blood in em

myself, id rather at any time be knocked down by a man who had got blood in him, than id be picked up by a man who hadnt

this sentiment, as compressing the general question into a nutshell, gave the utmost satisfaction, and brought the gentleman into great notice until the ladies retired. after that, i observed that mr. gulpidge and mr. henry spiker, who had hitherto been very distant, entered into a defensive alliance against us, the common enemy, and exchanged a mysterious dialogue across the table for our defeat and overthrow.

that affair of the first bond for four thousand five hundred pounds has not taken the course that was expected, spiker, said mr. gulpidge.

do you mean the d. of a.s said mr. spiker.

the c. of b.s said mr. gulpidge.

mr. spiker raised his eyebrows, and looked much concerned.

when the question was referred to lord  i neednt name him, said mr. gulpidge, checking himself  i understand, said mr. spiker, n.

mr. gulpidge darkly nodded  was referred to him, his answer was,

money, or no release.

lord bless my soul cried mr. spiker.

money, or no release, repeated mr. gulpidge, firmly. the next in reversion  you understand me

k., said mr. spiker, with an ominous look.

 k. then positively refused to sign. he was attended at newmarket for that purpose, and he pointblank refused to do it.

mr. spiker was so interested, that he became quite stony.

so the matter rests at this hour, said mr. gulpidge, throwing himself back in his chair. our friend waterbrook will excuse me if i forbear to explain myself generally, on account of the magnitude of the interests involved.

mr. waterbrook was only too happy, as it appeared to me, to have such interests, and such names, even hinted at, across his table.

he assumed an expression of gloomy intelligence though i am persuaded he knew no more about the discussion than i did, and highly approved of the discretion that had been observed. mr.

spiker, after the receipt of such a confidence, naturally desired to favour his friend with a confidence of his own therefore the foregoing dialogue was succeeded by another, in which it was mr.

gulpidges turn to be surprised, and that by another in which the surprise came round to mr. spikers turn again, and so on, turn and turn about. all this time we, the outsiders, remained oppressed by the tremendous interests involved in the conversation and our host regarded us with pride, as the victims of a salutary awe and astonishment.

i was very glad indeed to get upstairs to agnes, and to talk with her in a corner, and to introduce traddles to her, who was shy, but agreeable, and the same goodnatured creature still. as he was obliged to leave early, on account of going away next morning for a month, i had not nearly so much conversation with him as i could have wished but we exchanged addresses, and promised ourselves the pleasure of another meeting when he should come back to town. he was greatly interested to hear that i knew steerforth, and spoke of him with such warmth that i made him tell agnes what he thought of him. but agnes only looked at me the while, and very slightly shook her head when only i observed her.

as she was not among people with whom i believed she could be very much at home, i was almost glad to hear that she was going away within a few days, though i was sorry at the prospect of parting from her again so soon. this caused me to remain until all the company were gone. conversing with her, and hearing her sing, was such a delightful reminder to me of my happy life in the grave old house she had made so beautiful, that i could have remained there half the night but, having no excuse for staying any longer, when the lights of mr. waterbrooks society were all snuffed out, i took my leave very much against my inclination. i felt then, more than ever, that she was my better angel and if i thought of her sweet face and placid smile, as though they had shone on me from some removed being, like an angel, i hope i thought no harm.

i have said that the company were all gone but i ought to have excepted uriah, whom i dont include in that denomination, and who had never ceased to hover near us. he was close behind me when i went downstairs. he was close beside me, when i walked away from the house, slowly fitting his long skeleton fingers into the still longer fingers of a great guy fawkes pair of gloves.

it was in no disposition for uriahs company, but in remembrance of the entreaty agnes had made to me, that i asked him if he would come home to my rooms, and have some coffee.

oh, really, master copperfield, he rejoined  i beg your pardon, mister copperfield, but the other comes so natural, i dont like that you should put a constraint upon yourself to ask a numble person like me to your ouse.

there is no constraint in the case, said i. will you come

i should like to, very much, replied uriah, with a writhe.

well, then, come along said i.

i could not help being rather short with him, but he appeared not to mind it. we went the nearest way, without conversing much upon the road and he was so humble in respect of those scarecrow gloves, that he was still putting them on, and seemed to have made no advance in that labour, when we got to my place.

i led him up the dark stairs, to prevent his knocking his head against anything, and really his damp cold hand felt so like a frog in mine, that i was tempted to drop it and run away. agnes and hospitality prevailed, however, and i conducted him to my fireside.

when i lighted my candles, he fell into meek transports with the room that was revealed to him and when i heated the coffee in an unassuming blocktin vessel in which mrs. crupp delighted to prepare it chiefly, i believe, because it was not intended for the purpose, being a shavingpot, and because there was a patent invention of great price mouldering away in the pantry, he professed so much emotion, that i could joyfully have scalded him.

oh, really, master copperfield,  i mean mister copperfield, said uriah, to see you waiting upon me is what i never could have expected but, one way and another, so many things happen to me which i never could have expected, i am sure, in my umble station, that it seems to rain blessings on my ed. you have heard something, i dessay, of a change in my expectations, master copperfield,  i should say, mister copperfield

as he sat on my sofa, with his long knees drawn up under his coffeecup, his hat and gloves upon the ground close to him, his spoon going softly round and round, his shadowless red eyes, which looked as if they had scorched their lashes off, turned towards me without looking at me, the disagreeable dints i have formerly described in his nostrils coming and going with his breath, and a snaky undulation pervading his frame from his chin to his boots, i decided in my own mind that i disliked him intensely. it made me very uncomfortable to have him for a guest, for i was young then, and unused to disguise what i so strongly felt.

you have heard something, i dessay, of a change in my expectations, master copperfield,  i should say, mister copperfield observed uriah.

yes, said i, something.

ah i thought miss agnes would know of it he quietly returned.

im glad to find miss agnes knows of it. oh, thank you, master  mister copperfield

i could have thrown my bootjack at him it lay ready on the rug, for having entrapped me into the disclosure of anything concerning agnes, however immaterial. but i only drank my coffee.

what a prophet you have shown yourself, mister copperfield pursued uriah. dear me, what a prophet you have proved yourself to be dont you remember saying to me once, that perhaps i should be a partner in mr. wickfields business, and perhaps it might be wickfield and heep you may not recollect it but when a person is umble, master copperfield, a person treasures such things up

i recollect talking about it, said i, though i certainly did not think it very likely then.

oh who would have thought it likely, mister copperfield returned uriah, enthusiastically. i am sure i didnt myself. i recollect saying with my own lips that i was much too umble. so i considered myself really and truly.

he sat, with that carved grin on his face, looking at the fire, as i looked at him.

but the umblest persons, master copperfield, he presently resumed, may be the instruments of good. i am glad to think i have been the instrument of good to mr. wickfield, and that i may be more so. oh what a worthy man he is, mister copperfield, but how imprudent he has been

i am sorry to hear it, said i. i could not help adding, rather pointedly, on all accounts.

decidedly so, mister copperfield, replied uriah. on all accounts. miss agness above all you dont remember your own eloquent expressions, master copperfield but i remember how you said one day that everybody must admire her, and how i thanked you for it you have forgot that, i have no doubt, master copperfield

no, said i, drily.

oh how glad i am you have not exclaimed uriah. to think that you should be the first to kindle the sparks of ambition in my umble breast, and that youve not forgot it oh  would you excuse me asking for a cup more coffee

something in the emphasis he laid upon the kindling of those sparks, and something in the glance he directed at me as he said it, had made me start as if i had seen him illuminated by a blaze of light. recalled by his request, preferred in quite another tone of voice, i did the honours of the shavingpot but i did them with an unsteadiness of hand, a sudden sense of being no match for him, and a perplexed suspicious anxiety as to what he might be going to say next, which i felt could not escape his observation.

he said nothing at all. he stirred his coffee round and round, he sipped it, he felt his chin softly with his grisly hand, he looked at the fire, he looked about the room, he gasped rather than smiled at me, he writhed and undulated about, in his deferential servility, he stirred and sipped again, but he left the renewal of the conversation to me.

so, mr. wickfield, said i, at last, who is worth five hundred of you  or me for my life, i think, i could not have helped dividing that part of the sentence with an awkward jerk has been imprudent, has he, mr. heep

oh, very imprudent indeed, master copperfield, returned uriah, sighing modestly. oh, very much so but i wish youd call me uriah, if you please. its like old times.

well uriah, said i, bolting it out with some difficulty.

thank you, he returned, with fervour. thank you, master copperfield its like the blowing of old breezes or the ringing of old bellses to hear you say uriah. i beg your pardon. was i making any observation

about mr. wickfield, i suggested.

oh yes, truly, said uriah. ah great imprudence, master copperfield. its a topic that i wouldnt touch upon, to any soul but you. even to you i can only touch upon it, and no more. if anyone else had been in my place during the last few years, by this time he would have had mr. wickfield oh, what a worthy man he is, master copperfield, too under his thumb. underhis thumb, said uriah, very slowly, as he stretched out his cruellooking hand above my table, and pressed his own thumb upon it, until it shook, and shook the room.

if i had been obliged to look at him with him splay foot on mr.

wickfields head, i think i could scarcely have hated him more.

oh, dear, yes, master copperfield, he proceeded, in a soft voice, most remarkably contrasting with the action of his thumb, which did not diminish its hard pressure in the least degree, theres no doubt of it. there would have been loss, disgrace, i dont know what at all. mr. wickfield knows it. i am the umble instrument of umbly serving him, and he puts me on an eminence i hardly could have hoped to reach. how thankful should i be with his face turned towards me, as he finished, but without looking at me, he took his crooked thumb off the spot where he had planted it, and slowly and thoughtfully scraped his lank jaw with it, as if he were shaving himself.

i recollect well how indignantly my heart beat, as i saw his crafty face, with the appropriately red light of the fire upon it, preparing for something else.

master copperfield, he began  but am i keeping you up

you are not keeping me up. i generally go to bed late.

thank you, master copperfield i have risen from my umble station since first you used to address me, it is true but i am umble still. i hope i never shall be otherwise than umble. you will not think the worse of my umbleness, if i make a little confidence to you, master copperfield will you

oh no, said i, with an effort.

thank you he took out his pockethandkerchief, and began wiping the palms of his hands. miss agnes, master copperfield 

well, uriah

oh, how pleasant to be called uriah, spontaneously he cried and gave himself a jerk, like a convulsive fish. you thought her looking very beautiful tonight, master copperfield

i thought her looking as she always does superior, in all respects, to everyone around her, i returned.

oh, thank you its so true he cried. oh, thank you very much for that

not at all, i said, loftily. there is no reason why you should thank me.

why that, master copperfield, said uriah, is, in fact, the confidence that i am going to take the liberty of reposing. umble as i am, he wiped his hands harder, and looked at them and at the fire by turns, umble as my mother is, and lowly as our poor but honest roof has ever been, the image of miss agnes i dont mind trusting you with my secret, master copperfield, for i have always overflowed towards you since the first moment i had the pleasure of beholding you in a ponyshay has been in my breast for years. oh, master copperfield, with what a pure affection do i love the ground my agnes walks on

i believe i had a delirious idea of seizing the redhot poker out of the fire, and running him through with it. it went from me with a shock, like a ball fired from a rifle but the image of agnes, outraged by so much as a thought of this redheaded animals, remained in my mind when i looked at him, sitting all awry as if his mean soul griped his body, and made me giddy. he seemed to swell and grow before my eyes the room seemed full of the echoes of his voice and the strange feeling to which, perhaps, no one is quite a stranger that all this had occurred before, at some indefinite time, and that i knew what he was going to say next, took possession of me.

a timely observation of the sense of power that there was in his face, did more to bring back to my remembrance the entreaty of agnes, in its full force, than any effort i could have made. i asked him, with a better appearance of composure than i could have thought possible a minute before, whether he had made his feelings known to agnes.

oh no, master copperfield he returned oh dear, no not to anyone but you. you see i am only just emerging from my lowly station. i rest a good deal of hope on her observing how useful i am to her father for i trust to be very useful to him indeed, master copperfield, and how i smooth the way for him, and keep him straight. shes so much attached to her father, master copperfield oh, what a lovely thing it is in a daughter, that i think she may come, on his account, to be kind to me.

i fathomed the depth of the rascals whole scheme, and understood why he laid it bare.

if youll have the goodness to keep my secret, master copperfield, he pursued, and not, in general, to go against me, i shall take it as a particular favour. you wouldnt wish to make unpleasantness. i know what a friendly heart youve got but having only known me on my umble footing on my umblest i should say, for i am very umble still, you might, unbeknown, go against me rather, with my agnes. i call her mine, you see, master copperfield. theres a song that says, id crowns resign, to call her mine i hope to do it, one of these days.

dear agnes so much too loving and too good for anyone that i could think of, was it possible that she was reserved to be the wife of such a wretch as this theres no hurry at present, you know, master copperfield, uriah proceeded, in his slimy way, as i sat gazing at him, with this thought in my mind. my agnes is very young still and mother and me will have to work our way upwards, and make a good many new arrangements, before it would be quite convenient. so i shall have time gradually to make her familiar with my hopes, as opportunities offer. oh, im so much obliged to you for this confidence oh, its such a relief, you cant think, to know that you understand our situation, and are certain as you wouldnt wish to make unpleasantness in the family not to go against me

he took the hand which i dared not withhold, and having given it a damp squeeze, referred to his palefaced watch.

dear me he said, its past one. the moments slip away so, in the confidence of old times, master copperfield, that its almost half past one

i answered that i had thought it was later. not that i had really thought so, but because my conversational powers were effectually scattered.

dear me he said, considering. the ouse that i am stopping at  a sort of a private hotel and boarding ouse, master copperfield, near the new river ed  will have gone to bed these two hours.

i am sorry, i returned, that there is only one bed here, and that i 

oh, dont think of mentioning beds, master copperfield he rejoined ecstatically, drawing up one leg. but would you have any objections to my laying down before the fire

if it comes to that, i said, pray take my bed, and ill lie down before the fire.

his repudiation of this offer was almost shrill enough, in the excess of its surprise and humility, to have penetrated to the ears of mrs. crupp, then sleeping, i suppose, in a distant chamber, situated at about the level of lowwater mark, soothed in her slumbers by the ticking of an incorrigible clock, to which she always referred me when we had any little difference on the score of punctuality, and which was never less than threequarters of an hour too slow, and had always been put right in the morning by the best authorities. as no arguments i could urge, in my bewildered condition, had the least effect upon his modesty in inducing him to accept my bedroom, i was obliged to make the best arrangements i could, for his repose before the fire. the mattress of the sofa which was a great deal too short for his lank figure, the sofa pillows, a blanket, the tablecover, a clean breakfastcloth, and a greatcoat, made him a bed and covering, for which he was more than thankful. having lent him a nightcap, which he put on at once, and in which he made such an awful figure, that i have never worn one since, i left him to his rest.

i never shall forget that night. i never shall forget how i turned and tumbled how i wearied myself with thinking about agnes and this creature how i considered what could i do, and what ought i to do how i could come to no other conclusion than that the best course for her peace was to do nothing, and to keep to myself what i had heard. if i went to sleep for a few moments, the image of agnes with her tender eyes, and of her father looking fondly on her, as i had so often seen him look, arose before me with appealing faces, and filled me with vague terrors. when i awoke, the recollection that uriah was lying in the next room, sat heavy on me like a waking nightmare and oppressed me with a leaden dread, as if i had had some meaner quality of devil for a lodger.

the poker got into my dozing thoughts besides, and wouldnt come out. i thought, between sleeping and waking, that it was still red hot, and i had snatched it out of the fire, and run him through the body. i was so haunted at last by the idea, though i knew there was nothing in it, that i stole into the next room to look at him.

there i saw him, lying on his back, with his legs extending to i dont know where, gurglings taking place in his throat, stoppages in his nose, and his mouth open like a postoffice. he was so much worse in reality than in my distempered fancy, that afterwards i was attracted to him in very repulsion, and could not help wandering in and out every halfhour or so, and taking another look at him. still, the long, long night seemed heavy and hopeless as ever, and no promise of day was in the murky sky.

when i saw him going downstairs early in the morning for, thank heaven he would not stay to breakfast, it appeared to me as if the night was going away in his person. when i went out to the commons, i charged mrs. crupp with particular directions to leave the windows open, that my sittingroom might be aired, and purged of his presence.



chapter 

i fall into captivity

i saw no more of uriah heep, until the day when agnes left town.

i was at the coach office to take leave of her and see her go and there was he, returning to canterbury by the same conveyance. it was some small satisfaction to me to observe his spare, shortwaisted, highshouldered, mulberrycoloured greatcoat perched up, in company with an umbrella like a small tent, on the edge of the back seat on the roof, while agnes was, of course, inside but what i underwent in my efforts to be friendly with him, while agnes looked on, perhaps deserved that little recompense. at the coach window, as at the dinnerparty, he hovered about us without a moments intermission, like a great vulture gorging himself on every syllable that i said to agnes, or agnes said to me.

in the state of trouble into which his disclosure by my fire had thrown me, i had thought very much of the words agnes had used in reference to the partnership. i did what i hope was right.

feeling sure that it was necessary for papas peace that the sacrifice should be made, i entreated him to make it. a miserable foreboding that she would yield to, and sustain herself by, the same feeling in reference to any sacrifice for his sake, had oppressed me ever since. i knew how she loved him. i knew what the devotion of her nature was. i knew from her own lips that she regarded herself as the innocent cause of his errors, and as owing him a great debt she ardently desired to pay. i had no consolation in seeing how different she was from this detestable rufus with the mulberrycoloured greatcoat, for i felt that in the very difference between them, in the selfdenial of her pure soul and the sordid baseness of his, the greatest danger lay. all this, doubtless, he knew thoroughly, and had, in his cunning, considered well.

yet i was so certain that the prospect of such a sacrifice afar off, must destroy the happiness of agnes and i was so sure, from her manner, of its being unseen by her then, and having cast no shadow on her yet that i could as soon have injured her, as given her any warning of what impended. thus it was that we parted without explanation she waving her hand and smiling farewell from the coach window her evil genius writhing on the roof, as if he had her in his clutches and triumphed.

i could not get over this farewell glimpse of them for a long time.

when agnes wrote to tell me of her safe arrival, i was as miserable as when i saw her going away. whenever i fell into a thoughtful state, this subject was sure to present itself, and all my uneasiness was sure to be redoubled. hardly a night passed without my dreaming of it. it became a part of my life, and as inseparable from my life as my own head.

i had ample leisure to refine upon my uneasiness for steerforth was at oxford, as he wrote to me, and when i was not at the commons, i was very much alone. i believe i had at this time some lurking distrust of steerforth. i wrote to him most affectionately in reply to his, but i think i was glad, upon the whole, that he could not come to london just then. i suspect the truth to be, that the influence of agnes was upon me, undisturbed by the sight of him and that it was the more powerful with me, because she had so large a share in my thoughts and interest.

in the meantime, days and weeks slipped away. i was articled to spenlow and jorkins. i had ninety pounds a year exclusive of my houserent and sundry collateral matters from my aunt. my rooms were engaged for twelve months certain and though i still found them dreary of an evening, and the evenings long, i could settle down into a state of equable low spirits, and resign myself to coffee which i seem, on looking back, to have taken by the gallon at about this period of my existence. at about this time, too, i made three discoveries first, that mrs. crupp was a martyr to a curious disorder called the spazzums, which was generally accompanied with inflammation of the nose, and required to be constantly treated with peppermint secondly, that something peculiar in the temperature of my pantry, made the brandybottles burst thirdly, that i was alone in the world, and much given to record that circumstance in fragments of english versification.

on the day when i was articled, no festivity took place, beyond my having sandwiches and sherry into the office for the clerks, and going alone to the theatre at night. i went to see the stranger, as a doctors commons sort of play, and was so dreadfully cut up, that i hardly knew myself in my own glass when i got home. mr.

spenlow remarked, on this occasion, when we concluded our business, that he should have been happy to have seen me at his house at norwood to celebrate our becoming connected, but for his domestic arrangements being in some disorder, on account of the expected return of his daughter from finishing her education at paris. but, he intimated that when she came home he should hope to have the pleasure of entertaining me. i knew that he was a widower with one daughter, and expressed my acknowledgements.

mr. spenlow was as good as his word. in a week or two, he referred to this engagement, and said, that if i would do him the favour to come down next saturday, and stay till monday, he would be extremely happy. of course i said i would do him the favour and he was to drive me down in his phaeton, and to bring me back.

when the day arrived, my very carpetbag was an object of veneration to the stipendiary clerks, to whom the house at norwood was a sacred mystery. one of them informed me that he had heard that mr. spenlow ate entirely off plate and china and another hinted at champagne being constantly on draught, after the usual custom of tablebeer. the old clerk with the wig, whose name was mr. tiffey, had been down on business several times in the course of his career, and had on each occasion penetrated to the breakfastparlour. he described it as an apartment of the most sumptuous nature, and said that he had drunk brown east india sherry there, of a quality so precious as to make a man wink. we had an adjourned cause in the consistory that day  about excommunicating a baker who had been objecting in a vestry to a pavingrate  and as the evidence was just twice the length of robinson crusoe, according to a calculation i made, it was rather late in the day before we finished. however, we got him excommunicated for six weeks, and sentenced in no end of costs and then the bakers proctor, and the judge, and the advocates on both sides who were all nearly related, went out of town together, and mr. spenlow and i drove away in the phaeton.

the phaeton was a very handsome affair the horses arched their necks and lifted up their legs as if they knew they belonged to doctors commons. there was a good deal of competition in the commons on all points of display, and it turned out some very choice equipages then though i always have considered, and always shall consider, that in my time the great article of competition there was starch which i think was worn among the proctors to as great an extent as it is in the nature of man to bear.

we were very pleasant, going down, and mr. spenlow gave me some hints in reference to my profession. he said it was the genteelest profession in the world, and must on no account be confounded with the profession of a solicitor being quite another sort of thing, infinitely more exclusive, less mechanical, and more profitable.

we took things much more easily in the commons than they could be taken anywhere else, he observed, and that set us, as a privileged class, apart. he said it was impossible to conceal the disagreeable fact, that we were chiefly employed by solicitors but he gave me to understand that they were an inferior race of men, universally looked down upon by all proctors of any pretensions.

i asked mr. spenlow what he considered the best sort of professional business he replied, that a good case of a disputed will, where there was a neat little estate of thirty or forty thousand pounds, was, perhaps, the best of all. in such a case, he said, not only were there very pretty pickings, in the way of arguments at every stage of the proceedings, and mountains upon mountains of evidence on interrogatory and counterinterrogatory to say nothing of an appeal lying, first to the delegates, and then to the lords, but, the costs being pretty sure to come out of the estate at last, both sides went at it in a lively and spirited manner, and expense was no consideration. then, he launched into a general eulogium on the commons. what was to be particularly admired he said in the commons, was its compactness. it was the most conveniently organized place in the world. it was the complete idea of snugness. it lay in a nutshell. for example you brought a divorce case, or a restitution case, into the consistory.

very good. you tried it in the consistory. you made a quiet little round game of it, among a family group, and you played it out at leisure. suppose you were not satisfied with the consistory, what did you do then why, you went into the arches.

what was the arches the same court, in the same room, with the same bar, and the same practitioners, but another judge, for there the consistory judge could plead any courtday as an advocate.

well, you played your round game out again. still you were not satisfied. very good. what did you do then why, you went to the delegates. who were the delegates why, the ecclesiastical delegates were the advocates without any business, who had looked on at the round game when it was playing in both courts, and had seen the cards shuffled, and cut, and played, and had talked to all the players about it, and now came fresh, as judges, to settle the matter to the satisfaction of everybody discontented people might talk of corruption in the commons, closeness in the commons, and the necessity of reforming the commons, said mr. spenlow solemnly, in conclusion but when the price of wheat per bushel had been highest, the commons had been busiest and a man might lay his hand upon his heart, and say this to the whole world,  touch the commons, and down comes the country

i listened to all this with attention and though, i must say, i had my doubts whether the country was quite as much obliged to the commons as mr. spenlow made out, i respectfully deferred to his opinion. that about the price of wheat per bushel, i modestly felt was too much for my strength, and quite settled the question. i have never, to this hour, got the better of that bushel of wheat.

it has reappeared to annihilate me, all through my life, in connexion with all kinds of subjects. i dont know now, exactly, what it has to do with me, or what right it has to crush me, on an infinite variety of occasions but whenever i see my old friend the bushel brought in by the head and shoulders as he always is, i observe, i give up a subject for lost.

this is a digression. i was not the man to touch the commons, and bring down the country. i submissively expressed, by my silence, my acquiescence in all i had heard from my superior in years and knowledge and we talked about the stranger and the drama, and the pairs of horses, until we came to mr. spenlows gate.

there was a lovely garden to mr. spenlows house and though that was not the best time of the year for seeing a garden, it was so beautifully kept, that i was quite enchanted. there was a charming lawn, there were clusters of trees, and there were perspective walks that i could just distinguish in the dark, arched over with trelliswork, on which shrubs and flowers grew in the growing season. here miss spenlow walks by herself, i thought. dear me

we went into the house, which was cheerfully lighted up, and into a hall where there were all sorts of hats, caps, greatcoats, plaids, gloves, whips, and walkingsticks. where is miss dora said mr. spenlow to the servant. dora i thought. what a beautiful name

we turned into a room near at hand i think it was the identical breakfastroom, made memorable by the brown east indian sherry, and i heard a voice say, mr. copperfield, my daughter dora, and my daughter doras confidential friend it was, no doubt, mr.

spenlows voice, but i didnt know it, and i didnt care whose it was. all was over in a moment. i had fulfilled my destiny. i was a captive and a slave. i loved dora spenlow to distraction

she was more than human to me. she was a fairy, a sylph, i dont know what she was  anything that no one ever saw, and everything that everybody ever wanted. i was swallowed up in an abyss of love in an instant. there was no pausing on the brink no looking down, or looking back i was gone, headlong, before i had sense to say a word to her.

i, observed a wellremembered voice, when i had bowed and murmured something, have seen mr. copperfield before.

the speaker was not dora. no the confidential friend, miss murdstone

i dont think i was much astonished. to the best of my judgement, no capacity of astonishment was left in me. there was nothing worth mentioning in the material world, but dora spenlow, to be astonished about. i said, how do you do, miss murdstone i hope you are well. she answered, very well. i said, how is mr.

murdstone she replied, my brother is robust, i am obliged to you.

mr. spenlow, who, i suppose, had been surprised to see us recognize each other, then put in his word.

i am glad to find, he said, copperfield, that you and miss murdstone are already acquainted.

mr. copperfield and myself, said miss murdstone, with severe composure, are connexions. we were once slightly acquainted. it was in his childish days. circumstances have separated us since.

i should not have known him.

i replied that i should have known her, anywhere. which was true enough.

miss murdstone has had the goodness, said mr. spenlow to me, to accept the office  if i may so describe it  of my daughter doras confidential friend. my daughter dora having, unhappily, no mother, miss murdstone is obliging enough to become her companion and protector.

a passing thought occurred to me that miss murdstone, like the pocket instrument called a lifepreserver, was not so much designed for purposes of protection as of assault. but as i had none but passing thoughts for any subject save dora, i glanced at her, directly afterwards, and was thinking that i saw, in her prettily pettish manner, that she was not very much inclined to be particularly confidential to her companion and protector, when a bell rang, which mr. spenlow said was the first dinnerbell, and so carried me off to dress.

the idea of dressing ones self, or doing anything in the way of action, in that state of love, was a little too ridiculous. i could only sit down before my fire, biting the key of my carpetbag, and think of the captivating, girlish, brighteyed lovely dora. what a form she had, what a face she had, what a graceful, variable, enchanting manner

the bell rang again so soon that i made a mere scramble of my dressing, instead of the careful operation i could have wished under the circumstances, and went downstairs. there was some company. dora was talking to an old gentleman with a grey head.

grey as he was  and a greatgrandfather into the bargain, for he said so  i was madly jealous of him.

what a state of mind i was in i was jealous of everybody. i couldnt bear the idea of anybody knowing mr. spenlow better than i did. it was torturing to me to hear them talk of occurrences in which i had had no share. when a most amiable person, with a highly polished bald head, asked me across the dinner table, if that were the first occasion of my seeing the grounds, i could have done anything to him that was savage and revengeful.

i dont remember who was there, except dora. i have not the least idea what we had for dinner, besides dora. my impression is, that i dined off dora, entirely, and sent away halfadozen plates untouched. i sat next to her. i talked to her. she had the most delightful little voice, the gayest little laugh, the pleasantest and most fascinating little ways, that ever led a lost youth into hopeless slavery. she was rather diminutive altogether. so much the more precious, i thought.

when she went out of the room with miss murdstone no other ladies were of the party, i fell into a reverie, only disturbed by the cruel apprehension that miss murdstone would disparage me to her.

the amiable creature with the polished head told me a long story, which i think was about gardening. i think i heard him say, my gardener, several times. i seemed to pay the deepest attention to him, but i was wandering in a garden of eden all the while, with dora.

my apprehensions of being disparaged to the object of my engrossing affection were revived when we went into the drawingroom, by the grim and distant aspect of miss murdstone. but i was relieved of them in an unexpected manner.

david copperfield, said miss murdstone, beckoning me aside into a window. a word.

i confronted miss murdstone alone.

david copperfield, said miss murdstone, i need not enlarge upon family circumstances. they are not a tempting subject.

far from it, maam, i returned.

far from it, assented miss murdstone. i do not wish to revive the memory of past differences, or of past outrages. i have received outrages from a person  a female i am sorry to say, for the credit of my sex  who is not to be mentioned without scorn and disgust and therefore i would rather not mention her.

i felt very fiery on my aunts account but i said it would certainly be better, if miss murdstone pleased, not to mention her.

i could not hear her disrespectfully mentioned, i added, without expressing my opinion in a decided tone.

miss murdstone shut her eyes, and disdainfully inclined her head then, slowly opening her eyes, resumed david copperfield, i shall not attempt to disguise the fact, that i formed an unfavourable opinion of you in your childhood. it may have been a mistaken one, or you may have ceased to justify it.

that is not in question between us now. i belong to a family remarkable, i believe, for some firmness and i am not the creature of circumstance or change. i may have my opinion of you. you may have your opinion of me.

i inclined my head, in my turn.

but it is not necessary, said miss murdstone, that these opinions should come into collision here. under existing circumstances, it is as well on all accounts that they should not.

as the chances of life have brought us together again, and may bring us together on other occasions, i would say, let us meet here as distant acquaintances. family circumstances are a sufficient reason for our only meeting on that footing, and it is quite unnecessary that either of us should make the other the subject of remark. do you approve of this

miss murdstone, i returned, i think you and mr. murdstone used me very cruelly, and treated my mother with great unkindness. i shall always think so, as long as i live. but i quite agree in what you propose.

miss murdstone shut her eyes again, and bent her head. then, just touching the back of my hand with the tips of her cold, stiff fingers, she walked away, arranging the little fetters on her wrists and round her neck which seemed to be the same set, in exactly the same state, as when i had seen her last. these reminded me, in reference to miss murdstones nature, of the fetters over a jail door suggesting on the outside, to all beholders, what was to be expected within.

all i know of the rest of the evening is, that i heard the empress of my heart sing enchanted ballads in the french language, generally to the effect that, whatever was the matter, we ought always to dance, ta ra la, ta ra la accompanying herself on a glorified instrument, resembling a guitar. that i was lost in blissful delirium. that i refused refreshment. that my soul recoiled from punch particularly. that when miss murdstone took her into custody and led her away, she smiled and gave me her delicious hand. that i caught a view of myself in a mirror, looking perfectly imbecile and idiotic. that i retired to bed in a most maudlin state of mind, and got up in a crisis of feeble infatuation.

it was a fine morning, and early, and i thought i would go and take a stroll down one of those wirearched walks, and indulge my passion by dwelling on her image. on my way through the hall, i encountered her little dog, who was called jip  short for gipsy.

i approached him tenderly, for i loved even him but he showed his whole set of teeth, got under a chair expressly to snarl, and wouldnt hear of the least familiarity.

the garden was cool and solitary. i walked about, wondering what my feelings of happiness would be, if i could ever become engaged to this dear wonder. as to marriage, and fortune, and all that, i believe i was almost as innocently undesigning then, as when i loved little emly. to be allowed to call her dora, to write to her, to dote upon and worship her, to have reason to think that when she was with other people she was yet mindful of me, seemed to me the summit of human ambition  i am sure it was the summit of mine. there is no doubt whatever that i was a lackadaisical young spooney but there was a purity of heart in all this, that prevents my having quite a contemptuous recollection of it, let me laugh as i may.

i had not been walking long, when i turned a corner, and met her.

i tingle again from head to foot as my recollection turns that corner, and my pen shakes in my hand.

you  are  out early, miss spenlow, said i.

its so stupid at home, she replied, and miss murdstone is so absurd she talks such nonsense about its being necessary for the day to be aired, before i come out. aired she laughed, here, in the most melodious manner. on a sunday morning, when i dont practise, i must do something. so i told papa last night i must come out. besides, its the brightest time of the whole day.

dont you think so

i hazarded a bold flight, and said not without stammering that it was very bright to me then, though it had been very dark to me a minute before.

do you mean a compliment said dora, or that the weather has really changed

i stammered worse than before, in replying that i meant no compliment, but the plain truth though i was not aware of any change having taken place in the weather. it was in the state of my own feelings, i added bashfully to clench the explanation.

i never saw such curls  how could i, for there never were such curls  as those she shook out to hide her blushes. as to the straw hat and blue ribbons which was on the top of the curls, if i could only have hung it up in my room in buckingham street, what a priceless possession it would have been you have just come home from paris, said i.

yes, said she. have you ever been there

no.

oh i hope youll go soon you would like it so much

traces of deepseated anguish appeared in my countenance. that she should hope i would go, that she should think it possible i could go, was insupportable. i depreciated paris i depreciated france.

i said i wouldnt leave england, under existing circumstances, for any earthly consideration. nothing should induce me. in short, she was shaking the curls again, when the little dog came running along the walk to our relief.

he was mortally jealous of me, and persisted in barking at me. she took him up in her arms  oh my goodness  and caressed him, but he persisted upon barking still. he wouldnt let me touch him, when i tried and then she beat him. it increased my sufferings greatly to see the pats she gave him for punishment on the bridge of his blunt nose, while he winked his eyes, and licked her hand, and still growled within himself like a little doublebass. at length he was quiet  well he might be with her dimpled chin upon his head  and we walked away to look at a greenhouse.

you are not very intimate with miss murdstone, are you said dora. my pet. the two last words were to the dog. oh, if they had only been to me no, i replied. not at all so.

she is a tiresome creature, said dora, pouting. i cant think what papa can have been about, when he chose such a vexatious thing to be my companion. who wants a protector i am sure i dont want a protector. jip can protect me a great deal better than miss murdstone,  cant you, jip, dear

he only winked lazily, when she kissed his ball of a head.

papa calls her my confidential friend, but i am sure she is no such thing  is she, jip we are not going to confide in any such cross people, jip and i. we mean to bestow our confidence where we like, and to find out our own friends, instead of having them found out for us  dont we, jip

jip made a comfortable noise, in answer, a little like a teakettle when it sings. as for me, every word was a new heap of fetters, riveted above the last.

it is very hard, because we have not a kind mama, that we are to have, instead, a sulky, gloomy old thing like miss murdstone, always following us about  isnt it, jip never mind, jip. we wont be confidential, and well make ourselves as happy as we can in spite of her, and well tease her, and not please her  wont we, jip

if it had lasted any longer, i think i must have gone down on my knees on the gravel, with the probability before me of grazing them, and of being presently ejected from the premises besides.

but, by good fortune the greenhouse was not far off, and these words brought us to it.

it contained quite a show of beautiful geraniums. we loitered along in front of them, and dora often stopped to admire this one or that one, and i stopped to admire the same one, and dora, laughing, held the dog up childishly, to smell the flowers and if we were not all three in fairyland, certainly i was. the scent of a geranium leaf, at this day, strikes me with a half comical half serious wonder as to what change has come over me in a moment and then i see a straw hat and blue ribbons, and a quantity of curls, and a little black dog being held up, in two slender arms, against a bank of blossoms and bright leaves.

miss murdstone had been looking for us. she found us here and presented her uncongenial cheek, the little wrinkles in it filled with hair powder, to dora to be kissed. then she took doras arm in hers, and marched us into breakfast as if it were a soldiers funeral.

how many cups of tea i drank, because dora made it, i dont know.

but, i perfectly remember that i sat swilling tea until my whole nervous system, if i had had any in those days, must have gone by the board. by and by we went to church. miss murdstone was between dora and me in the pew but i heard her sing, and the congregation vanished. a sermon was delivered  about dora, of course  and i am afraid that is all i know of the service.

we had a quiet day. no company, a walk, a family dinner of four, and an evening of looking over books and pictures miss murdstone with a homily before her, and her eye upon us, keeping guard vigilantly. ah little did mr. spenlow imagine, when he sat opposite to me after dinner that day, with his pockethandkerchief over his head, how fervently i was embracing him, in my fancy, as his soninlaw little did he think, when i took leave of him at night, that he had just given his full consent to my being engaged to dora, and that i was invoking blessings on his head

we departed early in the morning, for we had a salvage case coming on in the admiralty court, requiring a rather accurate knowledge of the whole science of navigation, in which as we couldnt be expected to know much about those matters in the commons the judge had entreated two old trinity masters, for charitys sake, to come and help him out. dora was at the breakfasttable to make the tea again, however and i had the melancholy pleasure of taking off my hat to her in the phaeton, as she stood on the doorstep with jip in her arms.

what the admiralty was to me that day what nonsense i made of our case in my mind, as i listened to it how i saw dora engraved upon the blade of the silver oar which they lay upon the table, as the emblem of that high jurisdiction and how i felt when mr.

spenlow went home without me i had had an insane hope that he might take me back again, as if i were a mariner myself, and the ship to which i belonged had sailed away and left me on a desert island i shall make no fruitless effort to describe. if that sleepy old court could rouse itself, and present in any visible form the daydreams i have had in it about dora, it would reveal my truth.

i dont mean the dreams that i dreamed on that day alone, but day after day, from week to week, and term to term. i went there, not to attend to what was going on, but to think about dora. if ever i bestowed a thought upon the cases, as they dragged their slow length before me, it was only to wonder, in the matrimonial cases remembering dora, how it was that married people could ever be otherwise than happy and, in the prerogative cases, to consider, if the money in question had been left to me, what were the foremost steps i should immediately have taken in regard to dora.

within the first week of my passion, i bought four sumptuous waistcoats  not for myself i had no pride in them for dora  and took to wearing strawcoloured kid gloves in the streets, and laid the foundations of all the corns i have ever had. if the boots i wore at that period could only be produced and compared with the natural size of my feet, they would show what the state of my heart was, in a most affecting manner.

and yet, wretched cripple as i made myself by this act of homage to dora, i walked miles upon miles daily in the hope of seeing her.

not only was i soon as well known on the norwood road as the postmen on that beat, but i pervaded london likewise. i walked about the streets where the best shops for ladies were, i haunted the bazaar like an unquiet spirit, i fagged through the park again and again, long after i was quite knocked up. sometimes, at long intervals and on rare occasions, i saw her. perhaps i saw her glove waved in a carriage window perhaps i met her, walked with her and miss murdstone a little way, and spoke to her. in the latter case i was always very miserable afterwards, to think that i had said nothing to the purpose or that she had no idea of the extent of my devotion, or that she cared nothing about me. i was always looking out, as may be supposed, for another invitation to mr. spenlows house. i was always being disappointed, for i got none.

mrs. crupp must have been a woman of penetration for when this attachment was but a few weeks old, and i had not had the courage to write more explicitly even to agnes, than that i had been to mr.

spenlows house, whose family, i added, consists of one daughter  i say mrs. crupp must have been a woman of penetration, for, even in that early stage, she found it out. she came up to me one evening, when i was very low, to ask she being then afflicted with the disorder i have mentioned if i could oblige her with a little tincture of cardamums mixed with rhubarb, and flavoured with seven drops of the essence of cloves, which was the best remedy for her complaint  or, if i had not such a thing by me, with a little brandy, which was the next best. it was not, she remarked, so palatable to her, but it was the next best. as i had never even heard of the first remedy, and always had the second in the closet, i gave mrs. crupp a glass of the second, which that i might have no suspicion of its being devoted to any improper use she began to take in my presence.

cheer up, sir, said mrs. crupp. i cant abear to see you so, sir im a mother myself.

i did not quite perceive the application of this fact to myself, but i smiled on mrs. crupp, as benignly as was in my power.

come, sir, said mrs. crupp. excuse me. i know what it is, sir.

theres a lady in the case.

mrs. crupp i returned, reddening.

oh, bless you keep a good heart, sir said mrs. crupp, nodding encouragement. never say die, sir if she dont smile upon you, theres a many as will. you are a young gentleman to be smiled on, mr. copperfull, and you must learn your walue, sir.

mrs. crupp always called me mr. copperfull firstly, no doubt, because it was not my name and secondly, i am inclined to think, in some indistinct association with a washingday.

what makes you suppose there is any young lady in the case, mrs.

crupp said i.

mr. copperfull, said mrs. crupp, with a great deal of feeling, im a mother myself.

for some time mrs. crupp could only lay her hand upon her nankeen bosom, and fortify herself against returning pain with sips of her medicine. at length she spoke again.

when the present set were took for you by your dear aunt, mr.

copperfull, said mrs. crupp, my remark were, i had now found summun i could care for. thank evin were the expression, i have now found summun i can care for  you dont eat enough, sir, nor yet drink.

is that what you found your supposition on, mrs. crupp said i.

sir, said mrs. crupp, in a tone approaching to severity, ive laundressed other young gentlemen besides yourself. a young gentleman may be overcareful of himself, or he may be undercareful of himself. he may brush his hair too regular, or too unregular. he may wear his boots much too large for him, or much too small. that is according as the young gentleman has his original character formed. but let him go to which extreme he may, sir, theres a young lady in both of em.

mrs. crupp shook her head in such a determined manner, that i had not an inch of vantageground left.

it was but the gentleman which died here before yourself, said mrs. crupp, that fell in love  with a barmaid  and had his waistcoats took in directly, though much swelled by drinking.

mrs. crupp, said i, i must beg you not to connect the young lady in my case with a barmaid, or anything of that sort, if you please.

mr. copperfull, returned mrs. crupp, im a mother myself, and not likely. i ask your pardon, sir, if i intrude. i should never wish to intrude where i were not welcome. but you are a young gentleman, mr. copperfull, and my adwice to you is, to cheer up, sir, to keep a good heart, and to know your own walue. if you was to take to something, sir, said mrs. crupp, if you was to take to skittles, now, which is healthy, you might find it divert your mind, and do you good.

with these words, mrs. crupp, affecting to be very careful of the brandy  which was all gone  thanked me with a majestic curtsey, and retired. as her figure disappeared into the gloom of the entry, this counsel certainly presented itself to my mind in the light of a slight liberty on mrs. crupps part but, at the same time, i was content to receive it, in another point of view, as a word to the wise, and a warning in future to keep my secret better.



chapter 

tommy traddles

it may have been in consequence of mrs. crupps advice, and, perhaps, for no better reason than because there was a certain similarity in the sound of the word skittles and traddles, that it came into my head, next day, to go and look after traddles. the time he had mentioned was more than out, and he lived in a little street near the veterinary college at camden town, which was principally tenanted, as one of our clerks who lived in that direction informed me, by gentlemen students, who bought live donkeys, and made experiments on those quadrupeds in their private apartments. having obtained from this clerk a direction to the academic grove in question, i set out, the same afternoon, to visit my old schoolfellow.

i found that the street was not as desirable a one as i could have wished it to be, for the sake of traddles. the inhabitants appeared to have a propensity to throw any little trifles they were not in want of, into the road which not only made it rank and sloppy, but untidy too, on account of the cabbageleaves. the refuse was not wholly vegetable either, for i myself saw a shoe, a doubledup saucepan, a black bonnet, and an umbrella, in various stages of decomposition, as i was looking out for the number i wanted.

the general air of the place reminded me forcibly of the days when i lived with mr. and mrs. micawber. an indescribable character of faded gentility that attached to the house i sought, and made it unlike all the other houses in the street  though they were all built on one monotonous pattern, and looked like the early copies of a blundering boy who was learning to make houses, and had not yet got out of his cramped brickandmortar pothooks  reminded me still more of mr. and mrs. micawber. happening to arrive at the door as it was opened to the afternoon milkman, i was reminded of mr. and mrs. micawber more forcibly yet.

now, said the milkman to a very youthful servant girl. has that there little bill of mine been heerd on

oh, master says hell attend to it immediate, was the reply.

because, said the milkman, going on as if he had received no answer, and speaking, as i judged from his tone, rather for the edification of somebody within the house, than of the youthful servant  an impression which was strengthened by his manner of glaring down the passage  because that there little bill has been running so long, that i begin to believe its run away altogether, and never wont be heerd of. now, im not a going to stand it, you know said the milkman, still throwing his voice into the house, and glaring down the passage.

as to his dealing in the mild article of milk, by the by, there never was a greater anomaly. his deportment would have been fierce in a butcher or a brandymerchant.

the voice of the youthful servant became faint, but she seemed to me, from the action of her lips, again to murmur that it would be attended to immediate.

i tell you what, said the milkman, looking hard at her for the first time, and taking her by the chin, are you fond of milk

yes, i likes it, she replied.

good, said the milkman. then you wont have none tomorrow.

dye hear not a fragment of milk you wont have tomorrow.

i thought she seemed, upon the whole, relieved by the prospect of having any today. the milkman, after shaking his head at her darkly, released her chin, and with anything rather than goodwill opened his can, and deposited the usual quantity in the family jug.

this done, he went away, muttering, and uttered the cry of his trade next door, in a vindictive shriek.

does mr. traddles live here i then inquired.

a mysterious voice from the end of the passage replied yes. upon which the youthful servant replied yes.

is he at home said i.

again the mysterious voice replied in the affirmative, and again the servant echoed it. upon this, i walked in, and in pursuance of the servants directions walked upstairs conscious, as i passed the back parlourdoor, that i was surveyed by a mysterious eye, probably belonging to the mysterious voice.

when i got to the top of the stairs  the house was only a story high above the ground floor  traddles was on the landing to meet me. he was delighted to see me, and gave me welcome, with great heartiness, to his little room. it was in the front of the house, and extremely neat, though sparely furnished. it was his only room, i saw for there was a sofabedstead in it, and his blackingbrushes and blacking were among his books  on the top shelf, behind a dictionary. his table was covered with papers, and he was hard at work in an old coat. i looked at nothing, that i know of, but i saw everything, even to the prospect of a church upon his china inkstand, as i sat down  and this, too, was a faculty confirmed in me in the old micawber times. various ingenious arrangements he had made, for the disguise of his chest of drawers, and the accommodation of his boots, his shavingglass, and so forth, particularly impressed themselves upon me, as evidences of the same traddles who used to make models of elephants dens in writingpaper to put flies in and to comfort himself under ill usage, with the memorable works of art i have so often mentioned.

in a corner of the room was something neatly covered up with a large white cloth. i could not make out what that was.

traddles, said i, shaking hands with him again, after i had sat down, i am delighted to see you.

i am delighted to see you, copperfield, he returned. i am very glad indeed to see you. it was because i was thoroughly glad to see you when we met in ely place, and was sure you were thoroughly glad to see me, that i gave you this address instead of my address at chambers.

oh you have chambers said i.

why, i have the fourth of a room and a passage, and the fourth of a clerk, returned traddles. three others and myself unite to have a set of chambers  to look businesslike  and we quarter the clerk too. halfacrown a week he costs me.

his old simple character and good temper, and something of his old unlucky fortune also, i thought, smiled at me in the smile with which he made this explanation.

its not because i have the least pride, copperfield, you understand, said traddles, that i dont usually give my address here. its only on account of those who come to me, who might not like to come here. for myself, i am fighting my way on in the world against difficulties, and it would be ridiculous if i made a pretence of doing anything else.

you are reading for the bar, mr. waterbrook informed me said i.

why, yes, said traddles, rubbing his hands slowly over one another. i am reading for the bar. the fact is, i have just begun to keep my terms, after rather a long delay. its some time since i was articled, but the payment of that hundred pounds was a great pull. a great pull said traddles, with a wince, as if he had had a tooth out.

do you know what i cant help thinking of, traddles, as i sit here looking at you i asked him.

no, said he.

that skyblue suit you used to wear.

lord, to be sure cried traddles, laughing. tight in the arms and legs, you know dear me well those were happy times, werent they

i think our schoolmaster might have made them happier, without doing any harm to any of us, i acknowledge, i returned.

perhaps he might, said traddles. but dear me, there was a good deal of fun going on. do you remember the nights in the bedroom

when we used to have the suppers and when you used to tell the stories ha, ha, ha and do you remember when i got caned for crying about mr. mell old creakle i should like to see him again, too

he was a brute to you, traddles, said i, indignantly for his good humour made me feel as if i had seen him beaten but yesterday.

do you think so returned traddles. really perhaps he was rather. but its all over, a long while. old creakle

you were brought up by an uncle, then said i.

of course i was said traddles. the one i was always going to write to. and always didnt, eh ha, ha, ha yes, i had an uncle then. he died soon after i left school.

indeed

yes. he was a retired  what do you call it  draper  clothmerchant  and had made me his heir. but he didnt like me when i grew up.

do you really mean that said i. he was so composed, that i fancied he must have some other meaning.

oh dear, yes, copperfield i mean it, replied traddles. it was an unfortunate thing, but he didnt like me at all. he said i wasnt at all what he expected, and so he married his housekeeper.

and what did you do i asked.

i didnt do anything in particular, said traddles. i lived with them, waiting to be put out in the world, until his gout unfortunately flew to his stomach  and so he died, and so she married a young man, and so i wasnt provided for.

did you get nothing, traddles, after all

oh dear, yes said traddles. i got fifty pounds. i had never been brought up to any profession, and at first i was at a loss what to do for myself. however, i began, with the assistance of the son of a professional man, who had been to salem house  yawler, with his nose on one side. do you recollect him

no. he had not been there with me all the noses were straight in my day.

it dont matter, said traddles. i began, by means of his assistance, to copy law writings. that didnt answer very well and then i began to state cases for them, and make abstracts, and that sort of work. for i am a plodding kind of fellow, copperfield, and had learnt the way of doing such things pithily.

well that put it in my head to enter myself as a law student and that ran away with all that was left of the fifty pounds. yawler recommended me to one or two other offices, however  mr.

waterbrooks for one  and i got a good many jobs. i was fortunate enough, too, to become acquainted with a person in the publishing way, who was getting up an encyclopaedia, and he set me to work and, indeed glancing at his table, i am at work for him at this minute. i am not a bad compiler, copperfield, said traddles, preserving the same air of cheerful confidence in all he said, but i have no invention at all not a particle. i suppose there never was a young man with less originality than i have.

as traddles seemed to expect that i should assent to this as a matter of course, i nodded and he went on, with the same sprightly patience  i can find no better expression  as before.

so, by little and little, and not living high, i managed to scrape up the hundred pounds at last, said traddles and thank heaven thats paid  though it was  though it certainly was, said traddles, wincing again as if he had had another tooth out, a pull. i am living by the sort of work i have mentioned, still, and i hope, one of these days, to get connected with some newspaper which would almost be the making of my fortune. now, copperfield, you are so exactly what you used to be, with that agreeable face, and its so pleasant to see you, that i shant conceal anything.

therefore you must know that i am engaged.

engaged oh, dora she is a curates daughter, said traddles one of ten, down in devonshire. yes for he saw me glance, involuntarily, at the prospect on the inkstand. thats the church you come round here to the left, out of this gate, tracing his finger along the inkstand, and exactly where i hold this pen, there stands the house  facing, you understand, towards the church.

the delight with which he entered into these particulars, did not fully present itself to me until afterwards for my selfish thoughts were making a groundplan of mr. spenlows house and garden at the same moment.

she is such a dear girl said traddles a little older than me, but the dearest girl i told you i was going out of town i have been down there. i walked there, and i walked back, and i had the most delightful time i dare say ours is likely to be a rather long engagement, but our motto is wait and hope we always say that. wait and hope, we always say. and she would wait, copperfield, till she was sixty  any age you can mention  for me

traddles rose from his chair, and, with a triumphant smile, put his hand upon the white cloth i had observed.

however, he said, its not that we havent made a beginning towards housekeeping. no, no we have begun. we must get on by degrees, but we have begun. here, drawing the cloth off with great pride and care, are two pieces of furniture to commence with. this flowerpot and stand, she bought herself. you put that in a parlour window, said traddles, falling a little back from it to survey it with the greater admiration, with a plant in it, and  and there you are this little round table with the marble top its two feet ten in circumference, i bought. you want to lay a book down, you know, or somebody comes to see you or your wife, and wants a place to stand a cup of tea upon, and  and there you are again said traddles. its an admirable piece of workmanship  firm as a rock

i praised them both, highly, and traddles replaced the covering as carefully as he had removed it.

its not a great deal towards the furnishing, said traddles, but its something. the tablecloths, and pillowcases, and articles of that kind, are what discourage me most, copperfield. so does the ironmongery  candleboxes, and gridirons, and that sort of necessaries  because those things tell, and mount up. however,

wait and hope and i assure you shes the dearest girl

i am quite certain of it, said i.

in the meantime, said traddles, coming back to his chair and this is the end of my prosing about myself, i get on as well as i can. i dont make much, but i dont spend much. in general, i board with the people downstairs, who are very agreeable people indeed. both mr. and mrs. micawber have seen a good deal of life, and are excellent company.

my dear traddles i quickly exclaimed. what are you talking about

traddles looked at me, as if he wondered what i was talking about.

mr. and mrs. micawber i repeated. why, i am intimately acquainted with them

an opportune double knock at the door, which i knew well from old experience in windsor terrace, and which nobody but mr. micawber could ever have knocked at that door, resolved any doubt in my mind as to their being my old friends. i begged traddles to ask his landlord to walk up. traddles accordingly did so, over the banister and mr. micawber, not a bit changed  his tights, his stick, his shirtcollar, and his eyeglass, all the same as ever  came into the room with a genteel and youthful air.

i beg your pardon, mr. traddles, said mr. micawber, with the old roll in his voice, as he checked himself in humming a soft tune.

i was not aware that there was any individual, alien to this tenement, in your sanctum.

mr. micawber slightly bowed to me, and pulled up his shirtcollar.

how do you do, mr. micawber said i.

sir, said mr. micawber, you are exceedingly obliging. i am in statu quo.

and mrs. micawber i pursued.

sir, said mr. micawber, she is also, thank god, in statu quo.

and the children, mr. micawber

sir, said mr. micawber, i rejoice to reply that they are, likewise, in the enjoyment of salubrity.

all this time, mr. micawber had not known me in the least, though he had stood face to face with me. but now, seeing me smile, he examined my features with more attention, fell back, cried, is it possible have i the pleasure of again beholding copperfield and shook me by both hands with the utmost fervour.

good heaven, mr. traddles said mr. micawber, to think that i should find you acquainted with the friend of my youth, the companion of earlier days my dear calling over the banisters to mrs. micawber, while traddles looked with reason not a little amazed at this description of me. here is a gentleman in mr.

traddless apartment, whom he wishes to have the pleasure of presenting to you, my love

mr. micawber immediately reappeared, and shook hands with me again.

and how is our good friend the doctor, copperfield said mr.

micawber, and all the circle at canterbury

i have none but good accounts of them, said i.

i am most delighted to hear it, said mr. micawber. it was at canterbury where we last met. within the shadow, i may figuratively say, of that religious edifice immortalized by chaucer, which was anciently the resort of pilgrims from the remotest corners of  in short, said mr. micawber, in the immediate neighbourhood of the cathedral.

i replied that it was. mr. micawber continued talking as volubly as he could but not, i thought, without showing, by some marks of concern in his countenance, that he was sensible of sounds in the next room, as of mrs. micawber washing her hands, and hurriedly opening and shutting drawers that were uneasy in their action.

you find us, copperfield, said mr. micawber, with one eye on traddles, at present established, on what may be designated as a small and unassuming scale but, you are aware that i have, in the course of my career, surmounted difficulties, and conquered obstacles. you are no stranger to the fact, that there have been periods of my life, when it has been requisite that i should pause, until certain expected events should turn up when it has been necessary that i should fall back, before making what i trust i shall not be accused of presumption in terming  a spring. the present is one of those momentous stages in the life of man. you find me, fallen back, for a spring and i have every reason to believe that a vigorous leap will shortly be the result.

i was expressing my satisfaction, when mrs. micawber came in a little more slatternly than she used to be, or so she seemed now, to my unaccustomed eyes, but still with some preparation of herself for company, and with a pair of brown gloves on.

my dear, said mr. micawber, leading her towards me, here is a gentleman of the name of copperfield, who wishes to renew his acquaintance with you.

it would have been better, as it turned out, to have led gently up to this announcement, for mrs. micawber, being in a delicate state of health, was overcome by it, and was taken so unwell, that mr.

micawber was obliged, in great trepidation, to run down to the waterbutt in the backyard, and draw a basinful to lave her brow with. she presently revived, however, and was really pleased to see me. we had halfanhours talk, all together and i asked her about the twins, who, she said, were grown great creatures and after master and miss micawber, whom she described as absolute giants, but they were not produced on that occasion.

mr. micawber was very anxious that i should stay to dinner. i should not have been averse to do so, but that i imagined i detected trouble, and calculation relative to the extent of the cold meat, in mrs. micawbers eye. i therefore pleaded another engagement and observing that mrs. micawbers spirits were immediately lightened, i resisted all persuasion to forego it.

but i told traddles, and mr. and mrs. micawber, that before i could think of leaving, they must appoint a day when they would come and dine with me. the occupations to which traddles stood pledged, rendered it necessary to fix a somewhat distant one but an appointment was made for the purpose, that suited us all, and then i took my leave.

mr. micawber, under pretence of showing me a nearer way than that by which i had come, accompanied me to the corner of the street being anxious he explained to me to say a few words to an old friend, in confidence.

my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber, i need hardly tell you that to have beneath our roof, under existing circumstances, a mind like that which gleams  if i may be allowed the expression  which gleams  in your friend traddles, is an unspeakable comfort. with a washerwoman, who exposes hardbake for sale in her parlourwindow, dwelling next door, and a bowstreet officer residing over the way, you may imagine that his society is a source of consolation to myself and to mrs. micawber. i am at present, my dear copperfield, engaged in the sale of corn upon commission. it is not an avocation of a remunerative description  in other words, it does not pay  and some temporary embarrassments of a pecuniary nature have been the consequence. i am, however, delighted to add that i have now an immediate prospect of something turning up i am not at liberty to say in what direction, which i trust will enable me to provide, permanently, both for myself and for your friend traddles, in whom i have an unaffected interest. you may, perhaps, be prepared to hear that mrs. micawber is in a state of health which renders it not wholly improbable that an addition may be ultimately made to those pledges of affection which  in short, to the infantine group. mrs. micawbers family have been so good as to express their dissatisfaction at this state of things. i have merely to observe, that i am not aware that it is any business of theirs, and that i repel that exhibition of feeling with scorn, and with defiance

mr. micawber then shook hands with me again, and left me.



chapter 

mr. micawbers gauntlet

until the day arrived on which i was to entertain my newlyfound old friends, i lived principally on dora and coffee. in my lovelorn condition, my appetite languished and i was glad of it, for i felt as though it would have been an act of perfidy towards dora to have a natural relish for my dinner. the quantity of walking exercise i took, was not in this respect attended with its usual consequence, as the disappointment counteracted the fresh air. i have my doubts, too, founded on the acute experience acquired at this period of my life, whether a sound enjoyment of animal food can develop itself freely in any human subject who is always in torment from tight boots. i think the extremities require to be at peace before the stomach will conduct itself with vigour.

on the occasion of this domestic little party, i did not repeat my former extensive preparations. i merely provided a pair of soles, a small leg of mutton, and a pigeonpie. mrs. crupp broke out into rebellion on my first bashful hint in reference to the cooking of the fish and joint, and said, with a dignified sense of injury, no no, sir you will not ask me sich a thing, for you are better acquainted with me than to suppose me capable of doing what i cannot do with ampial satisfaction to my own feelings but, in the end, a compromise was effected and mrs. crupp consented to achieve this feat, on condition that i dined from home for a fortnight afterwards.

and here i may remark, that what i underwent from mrs. crupp, in consequence of the tyranny she established over me, was dreadful.

i never was so much afraid of anyone. we made a compromise of everything. if i hesitated, she was taken with that wonderful disorder which was always lying in ambush in her system, ready, at the shortest notice, to prey upon her vitals. if i rang the bell impatiently, after halfadozen unavailing modest pulls, and she appeared at last  which was not by any means to be relied upon  she would appear with a reproachful aspect, sink breathless on a chair near the door, lay her hand upon her nankeen bosom, and become so ill, that i was glad, at any sacrifice of brandy or anything else, to get rid of her. if i objected to having my bed made at five oclock in the afternoon  which i do still think an uncomfortable arrangement  one motion of her hand towards the same nankeen region of wounded sensibility was enough to make me falter an apology. in short, i would have done anything in an honourable way rather than give mrs. crupp offence and she was the terror of my life.

i bought a secondhand dumbwaiter for this dinnerparty, in preference to reengaging the handy young man against whom i had conceived a prejudice, in consequence of meeting him in the strand, one sunday morning, in a waistcoat remarkably like one of mine, which had been missing since the former occasion. the young gal was reengaged but on the stipulation that she should only bring in the dishes, and then withdraw to the landingplace, beyond the outer door where a habit of sniffing she had contracted would be lost upon the guests, and where her retiring on the plates would be a physical impossibility.

having laid in the materials for a bowl of punch, to be compounded by mr. micawber having provided a bottle of lavenderwater, two waxcandles, a paper of mixed pins, and a pincushion, to assist mrs. micawber in her toilette at my dressingtable having also caused the fire in my bedroom to be lighted for mrs. micawbers convenience and having laid the cloth with my own hands, i awaited the result with composure.

at the appointed time, my three visitors arrived together. mr.

micawber with more shirtcollar than usual, and a new ribbon to his eyeglass mrs. micawber with her cap in a whiteybrown paper parcel traddles carrying the parcel, and supporting mrs. micawber on his arm. they were all delighted with my residence. when i conducted mrs. micawber to my dressingtable, and she saw the scale on which it was prepared for her, she was in such raptures, that she called mr. micawber to come in and look.

my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber, this is luxurious. this is a way of life which reminds me of the period when i was myself in a state of celibacy, and mrs. micawber had not yet been solicited to plight her faith at the hymeneal altar.

he means, solicited by him, mr. copperfield, said mrs. micawber, archly. he cannot answer for others.

my dear, returned mr. micawber with sudden seriousness, i have no desire to answer for others. i am too well aware that when, in the inscrutable decrees of fate, you were reserved for me, it is possible you may have been reserved for one, destined, after a protracted struggle, at length to fall a victim to pecuniary involvements of a complicated nature. i understand your allusion, my love. i regret it, but i can bear it.

micawber exclaimed mrs. micawber, in tears. have i deserved this i, who never have deserted you who never will desert you, micawber

my love, said mr. micawber, much affected, you will forgive, and our old and tried friend copperfield will, i am sure, forgive, the momentary laceration of a wounded spirit, made sensitive by a recent collision with the minion of power  in other words, with a ribald turncock attached to the waterworks  and will pity, not condemn, its excesses.

mr. micawber then embraced mrs. micawber, and pressed my hand leaving me to infer from this broken allusion that his domestic supply of water had been cut off that afternoon, in consequence of default in the payment of the companys rates.

to divert his thoughts from this melancholy subject, i informed mr.

micawber that i relied upon him for a bowl of punch, and led him to the lemons. his recent despondency, not to say despair, was gone in a moment. i never saw a man so thoroughly enjoy himself amid the fragrance of lemonpeel and sugar, the odour of burning rum, and the steam of boiling water, as mr. micawber did that afternoon.

it was wonderful to see his face shining at us out of a thin cloud of these delicate fumes, as he stirred, and mixed, and tasted, and looked as if he were making, instead of punch, a fortune for his family down to the latest posterity. as to mrs. micawber, i dont know whether it was the effect of the cap, or the lavenderwater, or the pins, or the fire, or the waxcandles, but she came out of my room, comparatively speaking, lovely. and the lark was never gayer than that excellent woman.

i suppose  i never ventured to inquire, but i suppose  that mrs.

crupp, after frying the soles, was taken ill. because we broke down at that point. the leg of mutton came up very red within, and very pale without besides having a foreign substance of a gritty nature sprinkled over it, as if if had had a fall into the ashes of that remarkable kitchen fireplace. but we were not in condition to judge of this fact from the appearance of the gravy, forasmuch as the young gal had dropped it all upon the stairs  where it remained, by the by, in a long train, until it was worn out. the pigeonpie was not bad, but it was a delusive pie the crust being like a disappointing head, phrenologically speaking full of lumps and bumps, with nothing particular underneath. in short, the banquet was such a failure that i should have been quite unhappy  about the failure, i mean, for i was always unhappy about dora  if i had not been relieved by the great good humour of my company, and by a bright suggestion from mr. micawber.

my dear friend copperfield, said mr. micawber, accidents will occur in the bestregulated families and in families not regulated by that pervading influence which sanctifies while it enhances the  a  i would say, in short, by the influence of woman, in the lofty character of wife, they may be expected with confidence, and must be borne with philosophy. if you will allow me to take the liberty of remarking that there are few comestibles better, in their way, than a devil, and that i believe, with a little division of labour, we could accomplish a good one if the young person in attendance could produce a gridiron, i would put it to you, that this little misfortune may be easily repaired.

there was a gridiron in the pantry, on which my morning rasher of bacon was cooked. we had it in, in a twinkling, and immediately applied ourselves to carrying mr. micawbers idea into effect. the division of labour to which he had referred was this  traddles cut the mutton into slices mr. micawber who could do anything of this sort to perfection covered them with pepper, mustard, salt, and cayenne i put them on the gridiron, turned them with a fork, and took them off, under mr. micawbers direction and mrs.

micawber heated, and continually stirred, some mushroom ketchup in a little saucepan. when we had slices enough done to begin upon, we fellto, with our sleeves still tucked up at the wrist, more slices sputtering and blazing on the fire, and our attention divided between the mutton on our plates, and the mutton then preparing.

what with the novelty of this cookery, the excellence of it, the bustle of it, the frequent starting up to look after it, the frequent sitting down to dispose of it as the crisp slices came off the gridiron hot and hot, the being so busy, so flushed with the fire, so amused, and in the midst of such a tempting noise and savour, we reduced the leg of mutton to the bone. my own appetite came back miraculously. i am ashamed to record it, but i really believe i forgot dora for a little while. i am satisfied that mr. and mrs. micawber could not have enjoyed the feast more, if they had sold a bed to provide it. traddles laughed as heartily, almost the whole time, as he ate and worked. indeed we all did, all at once and i dare say there was never a greater success.

we were at the height of our enjoyment, and were all busily engaged, in our several departments, endeavouring to bring the last batch of slices to a state of perfection that should crown the feast, when i was aware of a strange presence in the room, and my eyes encountered those of the staid littimer, standing hat in hand before me.

whats the matter i involuntarily asked.

i beg your pardon, sir, i was directed to come in. is my master not here, sir

no.

have you not seen him, sir

no dont you come from him

not immediately so, sir.

did he tell you you would find him here

not exactly so, sir. but i should think he might be here tomorrow, as he has not been here today.

is he coming up from oxford

i beg, sir, he returned respectfully, that you will be seated, and allow me to do this. with which he took the fork from my unresisting hand, and bent over the gridiron, as if his whole attention were concentrated on it.

we should not have been much discomposed, i dare say, by the appearance of steerforth himself, but we became in a moment the meekest of the meek before his respectable servingman. mr.

micawber, humming a tune, to show that he was quite at ease, subsided into his chair, with the handle of a hastily concealed fork sticking out of the bosom of his coat, as if he had stabbed himself. mrs. micawber put on her brown gloves, and assumed a genteel languor. traddles ran his greasy hands through his hair, and stood it bolt upright, and stared in confusion on the tablecloth. as for me, i was a mere infant at the head of my own table and hardly ventured to glance at the respectable phenomenon, who had come from heaven knows where, to put my establishment to rights.

meanwhile he took the mutton off the gridiron, and gravely handed it round. we all took some, but our appreciation of it was gone, and we merely made a show of eating it. as we severally pushed away our plates, he noiselessly removed them, and set on the cheese. he took that off, too, when it was done with cleared the table piled everything on the dumbwaiter gave us our wineglasses and, of his own accord, wheeled the dumbwaiter into the pantry. all this was done in a perfect manner, and he never raised his eyes from what he was about. yet his very elbows, when he had his back towards me, seemed to teem with the expression of his fixed opinion that i was extremely young.

can i do anything more, sir

i thanked him and said, no but would he take no dinner himself none, i am obliged to you, sir.

is mr. steerforth coming from oxford

i beg your pardon, sir

is mr. steerforth coming from oxford

i should imagine that he might be here tomorrow, sir. i rather thought he might have been here today, sir. the mistake is mine, no doubt, sir.

if you should see him first  said i.

if youll excuse me, sir, i dont think i shall see him first.

in case you do, said i, pray say that i am sorry he was not here today, as an old schoolfellow of his was here.

indeed, sir and he divided a bow between me and traddles, with a glance at the latter.

he was moving softly to the door, when, in a forlorn hope of saying something naturally  which i never could, to this man  i said oh littimer

sir

did you remain long at yarmouth, that time

not particularly so, sir.

you saw the boat completed

yes, sir. i remained behind on purpose to see the boat completed.

i know he raised his eyes to mine respectfully.

mr. steerforth has not seen it yet, i suppose

i really cant say, sir. i think  but i really cant say, sir.

i wish you good night, sir.

he comprehended everybody present, in the respectful bow with which he followed these words, and disappeared. my visitors seemed to breathe more freely when he was gone but my own relief was very great, for besides the constraint, arising from that extraordinary sense of being at a disadvantage which i always had in this mans presence, my conscience had embarrassed me with whispers that i had mistrusted his master, and i could not repress a vague uneasy dread that he might find it out. how was it, having so little in reality to conceal, that i always did feel as if this man were finding me out

mr. micawber roused me from this reflection, which was blended with a certain remorseful apprehension of seeing steerforth himself, by bestowing many encomiums on the absent littimer as a most respectable fellow, and a thoroughly admirable servant. mr.

micawber, i may remark, had taken his full share of the general bow, and had received it with infinite condescension.

but punch, my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber, tasting it, like time and tide, waits for no man. ah it is at the present moment in high flavour. my love, will you give me your opinion

mrs. micawber pronounced it excellent.

then i will drink, said mr. micawber, if my friend copperfield will permit me to take that social liberty, to the days when my friend copperfield and myself were younger, and fought our way in the world side by side. i may say, of myself and copperfield, in words we have sung together before now, that we twa hae run about the braes and pud the gowans fine  in a figurative point of view  on several occasions. i am not exactly aware, said mr. micawber, with the old roll in his voice, and the old indescribable air of saying something genteel, what gowans may be, but i have no doubt that copperfield and myself would frequently have taken a pull at them, if it had been feasible.

mr. micawber, at the then present moment, took a pull at his punch.

so we all did traddles evidently lost in wondering at what distant time mr. micawber and i could have been comrades in the battle of the world.

ahem said mr. micawber, clearing his throat, and warming with the punch and with the fire. my dear, another glass

mrs. micawber said it must be very little but we couldnt allow that, so it was a glassful.

as we are quite confidential here, mr. copperfield, said mrs.

micawber, sipping her punch, mr. traddles being a part of our domesticity, i should much like to have your opinion on mr.

micawbers prospects. for corn, said mrs. micawber argumentatively, as i have repeatedly said to mr. micawber, may be gentlemanly, but it is not remunerative. commission to the extent of two and ninepence in a fortnight cannot, however limited our ideas, be considered remunerative.

we were all agreed upon that.

then, said mrs. micawber, who prided herself on taking a clear view of things, and keeping mr. micawber straight by her womans wisdom, when he might otherwise go a little crooked, then i ask myself this question. if corn is not to be relied upon, what is

are coals to be relied upon not at all. we have turned our attention to that experiment, on the suggestion of my family, and we find it fallacious.

mr. micawber, leaning back in his chair with his hands in his pockets, eyed us aside, and nodded his head, as much as to say that the case was very clearly put.

the articles of corn and coals, said mrs. micawber, still more argumentatively, being equally out of the question, mr.

copperfield, i naturally look round the world, and say, what is there in which a person of mr. micawbers talent is likely to succeed and i exclude the doing anything on commission, because commission is not a certainty. what is best suited to a person of mr. micawbers peculiar temperament is, i am convinced, a certainty.

traddles and i both expressed, by a feeling murmur, that this great discovery was no doubt true of mr. micawber, and that it did him much credit.

i will not conceal from you, my dear mr. copperfield, said mrs.

micawber, that i have long felt the brewing business to be particularly adapted to mr. micawber. look at barclay and perkins

look at truman, hanbury, and buxton it is on that extensive footing that mr. micawber, i know from my own knowledge of him, is calculated to shine and the profits, i am told, are enormous

but if mr. micawber cannot get into those firms  which decline to answer his letters, when he offers his services even in an inferior capacity  what is the use of dwelling upon that idea none. i may have a conviction that mr. micawbers manners 

hem really, my dear, interposed mr. micawber.

my love, be silent, said mrs. micawber, laying her brown glove on his hand. i may have a conviction, mr. copperfield, that mr.

micawbers manners peculiarly qualify him for the banking business.

i may argue within myself, that if i had a deposit at a bankinghouse, the manners of mr. micawber, as representing that bankinghouse, would inspire confidence, and must extend the connexion. but if the various bankinghouses refuse to avail themselves of mr. micawbers abilities, or receive the offer of them with contumely, what is the use of dwelling upon that idea

none. as to originating a bankingbusiness, i may know that there are members of my family who, if they chose to place their money in mr. micawbers hands, might found an establishment of that description. but if they do not choose to place their money in mr.

micawbers hands  which they dont  what is the use of that

again i contend that we are no farther advanced than we were before.

i shook my head, and said, not a bit. traddles also shook his head, and said, not a bit.

what do i deduce from this mrs. micawber went on to say, still with the same air of putting a case lucidly. what is the conclusion, my dear mr. copperfield, to which i am irresistibly brought am i wrong in saying, it is clear that we must live

i answered not at all and traddles answered not at all and i found myself afterwards sagely adding, alone, that a person must either live or die.

just so, returned mrs. micawber, it is precisely that. and the fact is, my dear mr. copperfield, that we can not live without something widely different from existing circumstances shortly turning up. now i am convinced, myself, and this i have pointed out to mr. micawber several times of late, that things cannot be expected to turn up of themselves. we must, in a measure, assist to turn them up. i may be wrong, but i have formed that opinion.

both traddles and i applauded it highly.

very well, said mrs. micawber. then what do i recommend here is mr. micawber with a variety of qualifications  with great talent 

really, my love, said mr. micawber.

pray, my dear, allow me to conclude. here is mr. micawber, with a variety of qualifications, with great talent  i should say, with genius, but that may be the partiality of a wife 

traddles and i both murmured no.

and here is mr. micawber without any suitable position or employment. where does that responsibility rest clearly on society. then i would make a fact so disgraceful known, and boldly challenge society to set it right. it appears to me, my dear mr.

copperfield, said mrs. micawber, forcibly, that what mr. micawber has to do, is to throw down the gauntlet to society, and say, in effect, show me who will take that up. let the party immediately step forward.

i ventured to ask mrs. micawber how this was to be done.

by advertising, said mrs. micawber  in all the papers. it appears to me, that what mr. micawber has to do, in justice to himself, in justice to his family, and i will even go so far as to say in justice to society, by which he has been hitherto overlooked, is to advertise in all the papers to describe himself plainly as soandso, with such and such qualifications and to put it thus now employ me, on remunerative terms, and address, postpaid, to w. m., post office, camden town.

this idea of mrs. micawbers, my dear copperfield, said mr.

micawber, making his shirtcollar meet in front of his chin, and glancing at me sideways, is, in fact, the leap to which i alluded, when i last had the pleasure of seeing you.

advertising is rather expensive, i remarked, dubiously.

exactly so said mrs. micawber, preserving the same logical air.

quite true, my dear mr. copperfield i have made the identical observation to mr. micawber. it is for that reason especially, that i think mr. micawber ought as i have already said, in justice to himself, in justice to his family, and in justice to society to raise a certain sum of money  on a bill.

mr. micawber, leaning back in his chair, trifled with his eyeglass and cast his eyes up at the ceiling but i thought him observant of traddles, too, who was looking at the fire.

if no member of my family, said mrs. micawber, is possessed of sufficient natural feeling to negotiate that bill  i believe there is a better businessterm to express what i mean 

mr. micawber, with his eyes still cast up at the ceiling, suggested discount.

to discount that bill, said mrs. micawber, then my opinion is, that mr. micawber should go into the city, should take that bill into the money market, and should dispose of it for what he can get. if the individuals in the money market oblige mr. micawber to sustain a great sacrifice, that is between themselves and their consciences. i view it, steadily, as an investment. i recommend mr. micawber, my dear mr. copperfield, to do the same to regard it as an investment which is sure of return, and to make up his mind to any sacrifice.

i felt, but i am sure i dont know why, that this was selfdenying and devoted in mrs. micawber, and i uttered a murmur to that effect. traddles, who took his tone from me, did likewise, still looking at the fire.

i will not, said mrs. micawber, finishing her punch, and gathering her scarf about her shoulders, preparatory to her withdrawal to my bedroom i will not protract these remarks on the subject of mr. micawbers pecuniary affairs. at your fireside, my dear mr. copperfield, and in the presence of mr. traddles, who, though not so old a friend, is quite one of ourselves, i could not refrain from making you acquainted with the course i advise mr.

micawber to take. i feel that the time is arrived when mr.

micawber should exert himself and  i will add  assert himself, and it appears to me that these are the means. i am aware that i am merely a female, and that a masculine judgement is usually considered more competent to the discussion of such questions still i must not forget that, when i lived at home with my papa and mama, my papa was in the habit of saying, emmas form is fragile, but her grasp of a subject is inferior to none. that my papa was too partial, i well know but that he was an observer of character in some degree, my duty and my reason equally forbid me to doubt.

with these words, and resisting our entreaties that she would grace the remaining circulation of the punch with her presence, mrs.

micawber retired to my bedroom. and really i felt that she was a noble woman  the sort of woman who might have been a roman matron, and done all manner of heroic things, in times of public trouble.

in the fervour of this impression, i congratulated mr. micawber on the treasure he possessed. so did traddles. mr. micawber extended his hand to each of us in succession, and then covered his face with his pockethandkerchief, which i think had more snuff upon it than he was aware of. he then returned to the punch, in the highest state of exhilaration.

he was full of eloquence. he gave us to understand that in our children we lived again, and that, under the pressure of pecuniary difficulties, any accession to their number was doubly welcome. he said that mrs. micawber had latterly had her doubts on this point, but that he had dispelled them, and reassured her. as to her family, they were totally unworthy of her, and their sentiments were utterly indifferent to him, and they might  i quote his own expression  go to the devil.

mr. micawber then delivered a warm eulogy on traddles. he said traddless was a character, to the steady virtues of which he mr.

micawber could lay no claim, but which, he thanked heaven, he could admire. he feelingly alluded to the young lady, unknown, whom traddles had honoured with his affection, and who had reciprocated that affection by honouring and blessing traddles with her affection. mr. micawber pledged her. so did i. traddles thanked us both, by saying, with a simplicity and honesty i had sense enough to be quite charmed with, i am very much obliged to you indeed. and i do assure you, shes the dearest girl 

mr. micawber took an early opportunity, after that, of hinting, with the utmost delicacy and ceremony, at the state of my affections. nothing but the serious assurance of his friend copperfield to the contrary, he observed, could deprive him of the impression that his friend copperfield loved and was beloved.

after feeling very hot and uncomfortable for some time, and after a good deal of blushing, stammering, and denying, i said, having my glass in my hand, well i would give them d. which so excited and gratified mr. micawber, that he ran with a glass of punch into my bedroom, in order that mrs. micawber might drink d., who drank it with enthusiasm, crying from within, in a shrill voice, hear, hear my dear mr. copperfield, i am delighted. hear and tapping at the wall, by way of applause.

our conversation, afterwards, took a more worldly turn mr.

micawber telling us that he found camden town inconvenient, and that the first thing he contemplated doing, when the advertisement should have been the cause of something satisfactory turning up, was to move. he mentioned a terrace at the western end of oxford street, fronting hyde park, on which he had always had his eye, but which he did not expect to attain immediately, as it would require a large establishment. there would probably be an interval, he explained, in which he should content himself with the upper part of a house, over some respectable place of business  say in piccadilly,  which would be a cheerful situation for mrs.

micawber and where, by throwing out a bowwindow, or carrying up the roof another story, or making some little alteration of that sort, they might live, comfortably and reputably, for a few years.

whatever was reserved for him, he expressly said, or wherever his abode might be, we might rely on this  there would always be a room for traddles, and a knife and fork for me. we acknowledged his kindness and he begged us to forgive his having launched into these practical and businesslike details, and to excuse it as natural in one who was making entirely new arrangements in life.

mrs. micawber, tapping at the wall again to know if tea were ready, broke up this particular phase of our friendly conversation. she made tea for us in a most agreeable manner and, whenever i went near her, in handing about the teacups and breadandbutter, asked me, in a whisper, whether d. was fair, or dark, or whether she was short, or tall or something of that kind which i think i liked.

after tea, we discussed a variety of topics before the fire and mrs. micawber was good enough to sing us in a small, thin, flat voice, which i remembered to have considered, when i first knew her, the very tablebeer of acoustics the favourite ballads of the dashing white sergeant, and little tafflin. for both of these songs mrs. micawber had been famous when she lived at home with her papa and mama. mr. micawber told us, that when he heard her sing the first one, on the first occasion of his seeing her beneath the parental roof, she had attracted his attention in an extraordinary degree but that when it came to little tafflin, he had resolved to win that woman or perish in the attempt.

it was between ten and eleven oclock when mrs. micawber rose to replace her cap in the whiteybrown paper parcel, and to put on her bonnet. mr. micawber took the opportunity of traddles putting on his greatcoat, to slip a letter into my hand, with a whispered request that i would read it at my leisure. i also took the opportunity of my holding a candle over the banisters to light them down, when mr. micawber was going first, leading mrs. micawber, and traddles was following with the cap, to detain traddles for a moment on the top of the stairs.

traddles, said i, mr. micawber dont mean any harm, poor fellow but, if i were you, i wouldnt lend him anything.

my dear copperfield, returned traddles, smiling, i havent got anything to lend.

you have got a name, you know, said i.

oh you call that something to lend returned traddles, with a thoughtful look.

certainly.

oh said traddles. yes, to be sure i am very much obliged to you, copperfield but  i am afraid i have lent him that already.

for the bill that is to be a certain investment i inquired.

no, said traddles. not for that one. this is the first i have heard of that one. i have been thinking that he will most likely propose that one, on the way home. mines another.

i hope there will be nothing wrong about it, said i.

i hope not, said traddles. i should think not, though, because he told me, only the other day, that it was provided for. that was mr. micawbers expression, provided for.

mr. micawber looking up at this juncture to where we were standing, i had only time to repeat my caution. traddles thanked me, and descended. but i was much afraid, when i observed the goodnatured manner in which he went down with the cap in his hand, and gave mrs. micawber his arm, that he would be carried into the money market neck and heels.

i returned to my fireside, and was musing, half gravely and half laughing, on the character of mr. micawber and the old relations between us, when i heard a quick step ascending the stairs. at first, i thought it was traddles coming back for something mrs.

micawber had left behind but as the step approached, i knew it, and felt my heart beat high, and the blood rush to my face, for it was steerforths.

i was never unmindful of agnes, and she never left that sanctuary in my thoughts  if i may call it so  where i had placed her from the first. but when he entered, and stood before me with his hand out, the darkness that had fallen on him changed to light, and i felt confounded and ashamed of having doubted one i loved so heartily. i loved her none the less i thought of her as the same benignant, gentle angel in my life i reproached myself, not her, with having done him an injury and i would have made him any atonement if i had known what to make, and how to make it.

why, daisy, old boy, dumbfoundered laughed steerforth, shaking my hand heartily, and throwing it gaily away. have i detected you in another feast, you sybarite these doctors commons fellows are the gayest men in town, i believe, and beat us sober oxford people all to nothing his bright glance went merrily round the room, as he took the seat on the sofa opposite to me, which mrs. micawber had recently vacated, and stirred the fire into a blaze.

i was so surprised at first, said i, giving him welcome with all the cordiality i felt, that i had hardly breath to greet you with, steerforth.

well, the sight of me is good for sore eyes, as the scotch say, replied steerforth, and so is the sight of you, daisy, in full bloom. how are you, my bacchanal

i am very well, said i and not at all bacchanalian tonight, though i confess to another party of three.

all of whom i met in the street, talking loud in your praise, returned steerforth. whos our friend in the tights

i gave him the best idea i could, in a few words, of mr. micawber.

he laughed heartily at my feeble portrait of that gentleman, and said he was a man to know, and he must know him.

but who do you suppose our other friend is said i, in my turn.

heaven knows, said steerforth. not a bore, i hope i thought he looked a little like one.

traddles i replied, triumphantly.

whos he asked steerforth, in his careless way.

dont you remember traddles traddles in our room at salem house

oh that fellow said steerforth, beating a lump of coal on the top of the fire, with the poker. is he as soft as ever and where the deuce did you pick him up

i extolled traddles in reply, as highly as i could for i felt that steerforth rather slighted him. steerforth, dismissing the subject with a light nod, and a smile, and the remark that he would be glad to see the old fellow too, for he had always been an odd fish, inquired if i could give him anything to eat during most of this short dialogue, when he had not been speaking in a wild vivacious manner, he had sat idly beating on the lump of coal with the poker.

i observed that he did the same thing while i was getting out the remains of the pigeonpie, and so forth.

why, daisy, heres a supper for a king he exclaimed, starting out of his silence with a burst, and taking his seat at the table.

i shall do it justice, for i have come from yarmouth.

i thought you came from oxford i returned.

not i, said steerforth. i have been seafaring  better employed.

littimer was here today, to inquire for you, i remarked, and i understood him that you were at oxford though, now i think of it, he certainly did not say so.

littimer is a greater fool than i thought him, to have been inquiring for me at all, said steerforth, jovially pouring out a glass of wine, and drinking to me. as to understanding him, you are a cleverer fellow than most of us, daisy, if you can do that.

thats true, indeed, said i, moving my chair to the table. so you have been at yarmouth, steerforth interested to know all about it. have you been there long

no, he returned. an escapade of a week or so.

and how are they all of course, little emily is not married yet

not yet. going to be, i believe  in so many weeks, or months, or something or other. i have not seen much of em. by the by he laid down his knife and fork, which he had been using with great diligence, and began feeling in his pockets i have a letter for you.

from whom

why, from your old nurse, he returned, taking some papers out of his breast pocket. j. steerforth, esquire, debtor, to the willing mind thats not it. patience, and well find it presently. old whatshisnames in a bad way, and its about that, i believe.

barkis, do you mean

yes still feeling in his pockets, and looking over their contents its all over with poor barkis, i am afraid. i saw a little apothecary there  surgeon, or whatever he is  who brought your worship into the world. he was mighty learned about the case, to me but the upshot of his opinion was, that the carrier was making his last journey rather fast.  put your hand into the breast pocket of my greatcoat on the chair yonder, and i think youll find the letter. is it there

here it is said i.

thats right

it was from peggotty something less legible than usual, and brief.

it informed me of her husbands hopeless state, and hinted at his being a little nearer than heretofore, and consequently more difficult to manage for his own comfort. it said nothing of her weariness and watching, and praised him highly. it was written with a plain, unaffected, homely piety that i knew to be genuine, and ended with my duty to my ever darling  meaning myself.

while i deciphered it, steerforth continued to eat and drink.

its a bad job, he said, when i had done but the sun sets every day, and people die every minute, and we mustnt be scared by the common lot. if we failed to hold our own, because that equal foot at all mens doors was heard knocking somewhere, every object in this world would slip from us. no ride on roughshod if need be, smoothshod if that will do, but ride on ride on over all obstacles, and win the race

and win what race said i.

the race that one has started in, said he. ride on

i noticed, i remember, as he paused, looking at me with his handsome head a little thrown back, and his glass raised in his hand, that, though the freshness of the seawind was on his face, and it was ruddy, there were traces in it, made since i last saw it, as if he had applied himself to some habitual strain of the fervent energy which, when roused, was so passionately roused within him. i had it in my thoughts to remonstrate with him upon his desperate way of pursuing any fancy that he took  such as this buffeting of rough seas, and braving of hard weather, for example  when my mind glanced off to the immediate subject of our conversation again, and pursued that instead.

i tell you what, steerforth, said i, if your high spirits will listen to me 

they are potent spirits, and will do whatever you like, he answered, moving from the table to the fireside again.

then i tell you what, steerforth. i think i will go down and see my old nurse. it is not that i can do her any good, or render her any real service but she is so attached to me that my visit will have as much effect on her, as if i could do both. she will take it so kindly that it will be a comfort and support to her. it is no great effort to make, i am sure, for such a friend as she has been to me. wouldnt you go a days journey, if you were in my place

his face was thoughtful, and he sat considering a little before he answered, in a low voice, well go. you can do no harm.

you have just come back, said i, and it would be in vain to ask you to go with me

quite, he returned. i am for highgate tonight. i have not seen my mother this long time, and it lies upon my conscience, for its something to be loved as she loves her prodigal son.  bah

nonsense  you mean to go tomorrow, i suppose he said, holding me out at arms length, with a hand on each of my shoulders.

yes, i think so.

well, then, dont go till next day. i wanted you to come and stay a few days with us. here i am, on purpose to bid you, and you fly off to yarmouth

you are a nice fellow to talk of flying off, steerforth, who are always running wild on some unknown expedition or other

he looked at me for a moment without speaking, and then rejoined, still holding me as before, and giving me a shake come say the next day, and pass as much of tomorrow as you can with us who knows when we may meet again, else come say the next day i want you to stand between rosa dartle and me, and keep us asunder.

would you love each other too much, without me

yes or hate, laughed steerforth no matter which. come say the next day

i said the next day and he put on his greatcoat and lighted his cigar, and set off to walk home. finding him in this intention, i put on my own greatcoat but did not light my own cigar, having had enough of that for one while and walked with him as far as the open road a dull road, then, at night. he was in great spirits all the way and when we parted, and i looked after him going so gallantly and airily homeward, i thought of his saying, ride on over all obstacles, and win the race and wished, for the first time, that he had some worthy race to run.

i was undressing in my own room, when mr. micawbers letter tumbled on the floor. thus reminded of it, i broke the seal and read as follows. it was dated an hour and a half before dinner. i am not sure whether i have mentioned that, when mr. micawber was at any particularly desperate crisis, he used a sort of legal phraseology, which he seemed to think equivalent to winding up his affairs.


sir  for i dare not say my dear copperfield, it is expedient that i should inform you that the undersigned is crushed. some flickering efforts to spare you the premature knowledge of his calamitous position, you may observe in him this day but hope has sunk beneath the horizon, and the undersigned is crushed.

the present communication is penned within the personal range i cannot call it the society of an individual, in a state closely bordering on intoxication, employed by a broker. that individual is in legal possession of the premises, under a distress for rent.

his inventory includes, not only the chattels and effects of every description belonging to the undersigned, as yearly tenant of this habitation, but also those appertaining to mr. thomas traddles, lodger, a member of the honourable society of the inner temple.

if any drop of gloom were wanting in the overflowing cup, which is now commended in the language of an immortal writer to the lips of the undersigned, it would be found in the fact, that a friendly acceptance granted to the undersigned, by the beforementioned mr.

thomas traddles, for the sum of l s  d is over due, and is not provided for. also, in the fact that the living responsibilities clinging to the undersigned will, in the course of nature, be increased by the sum of one more helpless victim whose miserable appearance may be looked for  in round numbers  at the expiration of a period not exceeding six lunar months from the present date.

after premising thus much, it would be a work of supererogation to add, that dust and ashes are for ever scattered on the head of wilkins micawber.


poor traddles i knew enough of mr. micawber by this time, to foresee that he might be expected to recover the blow but my nights rest was sorely distressed by thoughts of traddles, and of the curates daughter, who was one of ten, down in devonshire, and who was such a dear girl, and who would wait for traddles ominous praise until she was sixty, or any age that could be mentioned.



chapter 

i visit steerforth at his home, again

i mentioned to mr. spenlow in the morning, that i wanted leave of absence for a short time and as i was not in the receipt of any salary, and consequently was not obnoxious to the implacable jorkins, there was no difficulty about it. i took that opportunity, with my voice sticking in my throat, and my sight failing as i uttered the words, to express my hope that miss spenlow was quite well to which mr. spenlow replied, with no more emotion than if he had been speaking of an ordinary human being, that he was much obliged to me, and she was very well.

we articled clerks, as germs of the patrician order of proctors, were treated with so much consideration, that i was almost my own master at all times. as i did not care, however, to get to highgate before one or two oclock in the day, and as we had another little excommunication case in court that morning, which was called the office of the judge promoted by tipkins against bullock for his souls correction, i passed an hour or two in attendance on it with mr. spenlow very agreeably. it arose out of a scuffle between two churchwardens, one of whom was alleged to have pushed the other against a pump the handle of which pump projecting into a schoolhouse, which schoolhouse was under a gable of the churchroof, made the push an ecclesiastical offence.

it was an amusing case and sent me up to highgate, on the box of the stagecoach, thinking about the commons, and what mr. spenlow had said about touching the commons and bringing down the country.

mrs. steerforth was pleased to see me, and so was rosa dartle. i was agreeably surprised to find that littimer was not there, and that we were attended by a modest little parlourmaid, with blue ribbons in her cap, whose eye it was much more pleasant, and much less disconcerting, to catch by accident, than the eye of that respectable man. but what i particularly observed, before i had been halfanhour in the house, was the close and attentive watch miss dartle kept upon me and the lurking manner in which she seemed to compare my face with steerforths, and steerforths with mine, and to lie in wait for something to come out between the two.

so surely as i looked towards her, did i see that eager visage, with its gaunt black eyes and searching brow, intent on mine or passing suddenly from mine to steerforths or comprehending both of us at once. in this lynxlike scrutiny she was so far from faltering when she saw i observed it, that at such a time she only fixed her piercing look upon me with a more intent expression still. blameless as i was, and knew that i was, in reference to any wrong she could possibly suspect me of, i shrunk before her strange eyes, quite unable to endure their hungry lustre.

all day, she seemed to pervade the whole house. if i talked to steerforth in his room, i heard her dress rustle in the little gallery outside. when he and i engaged in some of our old exercises on the lawn behind the house, i saw her face pass from window to window, like a wandering light, until it fixed itself in one, and watched us. when we all four went out walking in the afternoon, she closed her thin hand on my arm like a spring, to keep me back, while steerforth and his mother went on out of hearing and then spoke to me.

you have been a long time, she said, without coming here. is your profession really so engaging and interesting as to absorb your whole attention i ask because i always want to be informed, when i am ignorant. is it really, though

i replied that i liked it well enough, but that i certainly could not claim so much for it.

oh i am glad to know that, because i always like to be put right when i am wrong, said rosa dartle. you mean it is a little dry, perhaps

well, i replied perhaps it was a little dry.

oh and thats a reason why you want relief and change  excitement and all that said she. ah very true but isnt it a little  eh  for him i dont mean you

a quick glance of her eye towards the spot where steerforth was walking, with his mother leaning on his arm, showed me whom she meant but beyond that, i was quite lost. and i looked so, i have no doubt.

dont it  i dont say that it does, mind i want to know  dont it rather engross him dont it make him, perhaps, a little more remiss than usual in his visits to his blindlydoting  eh with another quick glance at them, and such a glance at me as seemed to look into my innermost thoughts.

miss dartle, i returned, pray do not think 

i dont she said. oh dear me, dont suppose that i think anything i am not suspicious. i only ask a question. i dont state any opinion. i want to found an opinion on what you tell me.

then, its not so well i am very glad to know it.

it certainly is not the fact, said i, perplexed, that i am accountable for steerforths having been away from home longer than usual  if he has been which i really dont know at this moment, unless i understand it from you. i have not seen him this long while, until last night.

no

indeed, miss dartle, no

as she looked full at me, i saw her face grow sharper and paler, and the marks of the old wound lengthen out until it cut through the disfigured lip, and deep into the nether lip, and slanted down the face. there was something positively awful to me in this, and in the brightness of her eyes, as she said, looking fixedly at me what is he doing

i repeated the words, more to myself than her, being so amazed.

what is he doing she said, with an eagerness that seemed enough to consume her like a fire. in what is that man assisting him, who never looks at me without an inscrutable falsehood in his eyes

if you are honourable and faithful, i dont ask you to betray your friend. i ask you only to tell me, is it anger, is it hatred, is it pride, is it restlessness, is it some wild fancy, is it love, what is it, that is leading him

miss dartle, i returned, how shall i tell you, so that you will believe me, that i know of nothing in steerforth different from what there was when i first came here i can think of nothing. i firmly believe there is nothing. i hardly understand even what you mean.

as she still stood looking fixedly at me, a twitching or throbbing, from which i could not dissociate the idea of pain, came into that cruel mark and lifted up the corner of her lip as if with scorn, or with a pity that despised its object. she put her hand upon it hurriedly  a hand so thin and delicate, that when i had seen her hold it up before the fire to shade her face, i had compared it in my thoughts to fine porcelain  and saying, in a quick, fierce, passionate way, i swear you to secrecy about this said not a word more.

mrs. steerforth was particularly happy in her sons society, and steerforth was, on this occasion, particularly attentive and respectful to her. it was very interesting to me to see them together, not only on account of their mutual affection, but because of the strong personal resemblance between them, and the manner in which what was haughty or impetuous in him was softened by age and sex, in her, to a gracious dignity. i thought, more than once, that it was well no serious cause of division had ever come between them or two such natures  i ought rather to express it, two such shades of the same nature  might have been harder to reconcile than the two extremest opposites in creation. the idea did not originate in my own discernment, i am bound to confess, but in a speech of rosa dartles.

she said at dinner oh, but do tell me, though, somebody, because i have been thinking about it all day, and i want to know.

you want to know what, rosa returned mrs. steerforth. pray, pray, rosa, do not be mysterious.

mysterious she cried. oh really do you consider me so

do i constantly entreat you, said mrs. steerforth, to speak plainly, in your own natural manner

oh then this is not my natural manner she rejoined. now you must really bear with me, because i ask for information. we never know ourselves.

it has become a second nature, said mrs. steerforth, without any displeasure but i remember,  and so must you, i think,  when your manner was different, rosa when it was not so guarded, and was more trustful.

i am sure you are right, she returned and so it is that bad habits grow upon one really less guarded and more trustful

how can i, imperceptibly, have changed, i wonder well, thats very odd i must study to regain my former self.

i wish you would, said mrs. steerforth, with a smile.

oh i really will, you know she answered. i will learn frankness from  let me see  from james.

you cannot learn frankness, rosa, said mrs. steerforth quickly  for there was always some effect of sarcasm in what rosa dartle said, though it was said, as this was, in the most unconscious manner in the world  in a better school.

that i am sure of, she answered, with uncommon fervour. if i am sure of anything, of course, you know, i am sure of that.

mrs. steerforth appeared to me to regret having been a little nettled for she presently said, in a kind tone well, my dear rosa, we have not heard what it is that you want to be satisfied about

that i want to be satisfied about she replied, with provoking coldness. oh it was only whether people, who are like each other in their moral constitution  is that the phrase

its as good a phrase as another, said steerforth.

thank you  whether people, who are like each other in their moral constitution, are in greater danger than people not so circumstanced, supposing any serious cause of variance to arise between them, of being divided angrily and deeply

i should say yes, said steerforth.

should you she retorted. dear me supposing then, for instance  any unlikely thing will do for a supposition  that you and your mother were to have a serious quarrel.

my dear rosa, interposed mrs. steerforth, laughing goodnaturedly, suggest some other supposition james and i know our duty to each other better, i pray heaven

oh said miss dartle, nodding her head thoughtfully. to be sure. that would prevent it why, of course it would. exactly.

now, i am glad i have been so foolish as to put the case, for it is so very good to know that your duty to each other would prevent it

thank you very much.

one other little circumstance connected with miss dartle i must not omit for i had reason to remember it thereafter, when all the irremediable past was rendered plain. during the whole of this day, but especially from this period of it, steerforth exerted himself with his utmost skill, and that was with his utmost ease, to charm this singular creature into a pleasant and pleased companion. that he should succeed, was no matter of surprise to me. that she should struggle against the fascinating influence of his delightful art  delightful nature i thought it then  did not surprise me either for i knew that she was sometimes jaundiced and perverse. i saw her features and her manner slowly change i saw her look at him with growing admiration i saw her try, more and more faintly, but always angrily, as if she condemned a weakness in herself, to resist the captivating power that he possessed and finally, i saw her sharp glance soften, and her smile become quite gentle, and i ceased to be afraid of her as i had really been all day, and we all sat about the fire, talking and laughing together, with as little reserve as if we had been children.

whether it was because we had sat there so long, or because steerforth was resolved not to lose the advantage he had gained, i do not know but we did not remain in the diningroom more than five minutes after her departure. she is playing her harp, said steerforth, softly, at the drawingroom door, and nobody but my mother has heard her do that, i believe, these three years. he said it with a curious smile, which was gone directly and we went into the room and found her alone.

dont get up, said steerforth which she had already done my dear rosa, dont be kind for once, and sing us an irish song.

what do you care for an irish song she returned.

much said steerforth. much more than for any other. here is daisy, too, loves music from his soul. sing us an irish song, rosa and let me sit and listen as i used to do.

he did not touch her, or the chair from which she had risen, but sat himself near the harp. she stood beside it for some little while, in a curious way, going through the motion of playing it with her right hand, but not sounding it. at length she sat down, and drew it to her with one sudden action, and played and sang.

i dont know what it was, in her touch or voice, that made that song the most unearthly i have ever heard in my life, or can imagine. there was something fearful in the reality of it. it was as if it had never been written, or set to music, but sprung out of passion within her which found imperfect utterance in the low sounds of her voice, and crouched again when all was still. i was dumb when she leaned beside the harp again, playing it, but not sounding it, with her right hand.

a minute more, and this had roused me from my trance  steerforth had left his seat, and gone to her, and had put his arm laughingly about her, and had said, come, rosa, for the future we will love each other very much and she had struck him, and had thrown him off with the fury of a wild cat, and had burst out of the room.

what is the matter with rosa said mrs. steerforth, coming in.

she has been an angel, mother, returned steerforth, for a little while and has run into the opposite extreme, since, by way of compensation.

you should be careful not to irritate her, james. her temper has been soured, remember, and ought not to be tried.

rosa did not come back and no other mention was made of her, until i went with steerforth into his room to say good night. then he laughed about her, and asked me if i had ever seen such a fierce little piece of incomprehensibility.

i expressed as much of my astonishment as was then capable of expression, and asked if he could guess what it was that she had taken so much amiss, so suddenly.

oh, heaven knows, said steerforth. anything you like  or nothing i told you she took everything, herself included, to a grindstone, and sharpened it. she is an edgetool, and requires great care in dealing with. she is always dangerous. good night

good night said i, my dear steerforth i shall be gone before you wake in the morning. good night

he was unwilling to let me go and stood, holding me out, with a hand on each of my shoulders, as he had done in my own room.

daisy, he said, with a smile  for though thats not the name your godfathers and godmothers gave you, its the name i like best to call you by  and i wish, i wish, i wish, you could give it to me

why so i can, if i choose, said i.

daisy, if anything should ever separate us, you must think of me at my best, old boy. come let us make that bargain. think of me at my best, if circumstances should ever part us

you have no best to me, steerforth, said i, and no worst. you are always equally loved, and cherished in my heart.

so much compunction for having ever wronged him, even by a shapeless thought, did i feel within me, that the confession of having done so was rising to my lips. but for the reluctance i had to betray the confidence of agnes, but for my uncertainty how to approach the subject with no risk of doing so, it would have reached them before he said, god bless you, daisy, and good night in my doubt, it did not reach them and we shook hands, and we parted.

i was up with the dull dawn, and, having dressed as quietly as i could, looked into his room. he was fast asleep lying, easily, with his head upon his arm, as i had often seen him lie at school.

the time came in its season, and that was very soon, when i almost wondered that nothing troubled his repose, as i looked at him. but he slept  let me think of him so again  as i had often seen him sleep at school and thus, in this silent hour, i left him.

never more, oh god forgive you, steerforth to touch that passive hand in love and friendship. never, never more



chapter 

a loss

i got down to yarmouth in the evening, and went to the inn. i knew that peggottys spare room  my room  was likely to have occupation enough in a little while, if that great visitor, before whose presence all the living must give place, were not already in the house so i betook myself to the inn, and dined there, and engaged my bed.

it was ten oclock when i went out. many of the shops were shut, and the town was dull. when i came to omer and jorams, i found the shutters up, but the shop door standing open. as i could obtain a perspective view of mr. omer inside, smoking his pipe by the parlour door, i entered, and asked him how he was.

why, bless my life and soul said mr. omer, how do you find yourself take a seat.  smoke not disagreeable, i hope

by no means, said i. i like it  in somebody elses pipe.

what, not in your own, eh mr. omer returned, laughing. all the better, sir. bad habit for a young man. take a seat. i smoke, myself, for the asthma.

mr. omer had made room for me, and placed a chair. he now sat down again very much out of breath, gasping at his pipe as if it contained a supply of that necessary, without which he must perish.

i am sorry to have heard bad news of mr. barkis, said i.

mr. omer looked at me, with a steady countenance, and shook his head.

do you know how he is tonight i asked.

the very question i should have put to you, sir, returned mr.

omer, but on account of delicacy. its one of the drawbacks of our line of business. when a partys ill, we cant ask how the party is.

the difficulty had not occurred to me though i had had my apprehensions too, when i went in, of hearing the old tune. on its being mentioned, i recognized it, however, and said as much.

yes, yes, you understand, said mr. omer, nodding his head. we dursnt do it. bless you, it would be a shock that the generality of parties mightnt recover, to say omer and jorams compliments, and how do you find yourself this morning  or this afternoon  as it may be.

mr. omer and i nodded at each other, and mr. omer recruited his wind by the aid of his pipe.

its one of the things that cut the trade off from attentions they could often wish to show, said mr. omer. take myself. if i have known barkis a year, to move to as he went by, i have known him forty years. but i cant go and say, how is he

i felt it was rather hard on mr. omer, and i told him so.

im not more selfinterested, i hope, than another man, said mr.

omer. look at me my wind may fail me at any moment, and it aint likely that, to my own knowledge, id be selfinterested under such circumstances. i say it aint likely, in a man who knows his wind will go, when it does go, as if a pair of bellows was cut open and that man a grandfather, said mr. omer.

i said, not at all.

it aint that i complain of my line of business, said mr. omer.

it aint that. some good and some bad goes, no doubt, to all callings. what i wish is, that parties was brought up strongerminded.

mr. omer, with a very complacent and amiable face, took several puffs in silence and then said, resuming his first point accordingly were obleeged, in ascertaining how barkis goes on, to limit ourselves to emly. she knows what our real objects are, and she dont have any more alarms or suspicions about us, than if we was so many lambs. minnie and joram have just stepped down to the house, in fact shes there, after hours, helping her aunt a bit, to ask her how he is tonight and if you was to please to wait till they come back, theyd give you full particlers. will you take something a glass of srub and water, now i smoke on srub and water, myself, said mr. omer, taking up his glass, because its considered softening to the passages, by which this troublesome breath of mine gets into action. but, lord bless you, said mr.

omer, huskily, it aint the passages thats out of order give me breath enough, said i to my daughter minnie, and ill find passages, my dear.

he really had no breath to spare, and it was very alarming to see him laugh. when he was again in a condition to be talked to, i thanked him for the proffered refreshment, which i declined, as i had just had dinner and, observing that i would wait, since he was so good as to invite me, until his daughter and his soninlaw came back, i inquired how little emily was well, sir, said mr. omer, removing his pipe, that he might rub his chin i tell you truly, i shall be glad when her marriage has taken place.

why so i inquired.

well, shes unsettled at present, said mr. omer. it aint that shes not as pretty as ever, for shes prettier  i do assure you, she is prettier. it aint that she dont work as well as ever, for she does. she was worth any six, and she is worth any six. but somehow she wants heart. if you understand, said mr. omer, after rubbing his chin again, and smoking a little, what i mean in a general way by the expression, a long pull, and a strong pull, and a pull altogether, my hearties, hurrah i should say to you, that that was  in a general way  what i miss in emly.

mr. omers face and manner went for so much, that i could conscientiously nod my head, as divining his meaning. my quickness of apprehension seemed to please him, and he went on now i consider this is principally on account of her being in an unsettled state, you see. we have talked it over a good deal, her uncle and myself, and her sweetheart and myself, after business and i consider it is principally on account of her being unsettled.

you must always recollect of emly, said mr. omer, shaking his head gently, that shes a most extraordinary affectionate little thing. the proverb says, you cant make a silk purse out of a sows ear. well, i dont know about that. i rather think you may, if you begin early in life. she has made a home out of that old boat, sir, that stone and marble couldnt beat.

i am sure she has said i.

to see the clinging of that pretty little thing to her uncle, said mr. omer to see the way she holds on to him, tighter and tighter, and closer and closer, every day, is to see a sight. now, you know, theres a struggle going on when thats the case. why should it be made a longer one than is needful

i listened attentively to the good old fellow, and acquiesced, with all my heart, in what he said.

therefore, i mentioned to them, said mr. omer, in a comfortable, easygoing tone, this. i said, now, dont consider emly nailed down in point of time, at all. make it your own time. her services have been more valuable than was supposed her learning has been quicker than was supposed omer and joram can run their pen through what remains and shes free when you wish. if she likes to make any little arrangement, afterwards, in the way of doing any little thing for us at home, very well. if she dont, very well still. were no losers, anyhow. for  dont you see, said mr. omer, touching me with his pipe, it aint likely that a man so short of breath as myself, and a grandfather too, would go and strain points with a little bit of a blueeyed blossom, like her

not at all, i am certain, said i.

not at all youre right said mr. omer. well, sir, her cousin  you know its a cousin shes going to be married to

oh yes, i replied. i know him well.

of course you do, said mr. omer. well, sir her cousin being, as it appears, in good work, and well to do, thanked me in a very manly sort of manner for this conducting himself altogether, i must say, in a way that gives me a high opinion of him, and went and took as comfortable a little house as you or i could wish to clap eyes on. that little house is now furnished right through, as neat and complete as a dolls parlour and but for barkiss illness having taken this bad turn, poor fellow, they would have been man and wife  i dare say, by this time. as it is, theres a postponement.

and emily, mr. omer i inquired. has she become more settled

why that, you know, he returned, rubbing his double chin again, cant naturally be expected. the prospect of the change and separation, and all that, is, as one may say, close to her and far away from her, both at once. barkiss death neednt put it off much, but his lingering might. anyway, its an uncertain state of matters, you see.

i see, said i.

consequently, pursued mr. omer, emlys still a little down, and a little fluttered perhaps, upon the whole, shes more so than she was. every day she seems to get fonder and fonder of her uncle, and more loth to part from all of us. a kind word from me brings the tears into her eyes and if you was to see her with my daughter minnies little girl, youd never forget it. bless my heart alive said mr. omer, pondering, how she loves that child

having so favourable an opportunity, it occurred to me to ask mr.

omer, before our conversation should be interrupted by the return of his daughter and her husband, whether he knew anything of martha.

ah he rejoined, shaking his head, and looking very much dejected. no good. a sad story, sir, however you come to know it. i never thought there was harm in the girl. i wouldnt wish to mention it before my daughter minnie  for shed take me up directly  but i never did. none of us ever did.

mr. omer, hearing his daughters footstep before i heard it, touched me with his pipe, and shut up one eye, as a caution. she and her husband came in immediately afterwards.

their report was, that mr. barkis was as bad as bad could be that he was quite unconscious and that mr. chillip had mournfully said in the kitchen, on going away just now, that the college of physicians, the college of surgeons, and apothecaries hall, if they were all called in together, couldnt help him. he was past both colleges, mr. chillip said, and the hall could only poison him.

hearing this, and learning that mr. peggotty was there, i determined to go to the house at once. i bade good night to mr.

omer, and to mr. and mrs. joram and directed my steps thither, with a solemn feeling, which made mr. barkis quite a new and different creature.

my low tap at the door was answered by mr. peggotty. he was not so much surprised to see me as i had expected. i remarked this in peggotty, too, when she came down and i have seen it since and i think, in the expectation of that dread surprise, all other changes and surprises dwindle into nothing.

i shook hands with mr. peggotty, and passed into the kitchen, while he softly closed the door. little emily was sitting by the fire, with her hands before her face. ham was standing near her.

we spoke in whispers listening, between whiles, for any sound in the room above. i had not thought of it on the occasion of my last visit, but how strange it was to me, now, to miss mr. barkis out of the kitchen this is very kind of you, masr davy, said mr. peggotty.

its oncommon kind, said ham.

emly, my dear, cried mr. peggotty. see here heres masr davy come what, cheer up, pretty not a wured to masr davy

there was a trembling upon her, that i can see now. the coldness of her hand when i touched it, i can feel yet. its only sign of animation was to shrink from mine and then she glided from the chair, and creeping to the other side of her uncle, bowed herself, silently and trembling still, upon his breast.

its such a loving art, said mr. peggotty, smoothing her rich hair with his great hard hand, that it cant abear the sorrer of this. its natral in young folk, masr davy, when theyre new to these here trials, and timid, like my little bird,  its natral.

she clung the closer to him, but neither lifted up her face, nor spoke a word.

its getting late, my dear, said mr. peggotty, and heres ham come fur to take you home. theer go along with tother loving art what emly eh, my pretty

the sound of her voice had not reached me, but he bent his head as if he listened to her, and then said let you stay with your uncle why, you doent mean to ask me that stay with your uncle, moppet when your husband thatll be so soon, is here fur to take you home now a person wouldnt think it, fur to see this little thing alongside a roughweather chap like me, said mr. peggotty, looking round at both of us, with infinite pride but the sea aint more salt in it than she has fondness in her for her uncle  a foolish little emly

emlys in the right in that, masr davy said ham. lookee here as emly wishes of it, and as shes hurried and frightened, like, besides, ill leave her till morning. let me stay too

no, no, said mr. peggotty. you doent ought  a married man like you  or whats as good  to take and hull away a days work.

and you doent ought to watch and work both. that wont do. you go home and turn in. you aint afeerd of emly not being took good care on, i know.

ham yielded to this persuasion, and took his hat to go. even when he kissed her  and i never saw him approach her, but i felt that nature had given him the soul of a gentleman  she seemed to cling closer to her uncle, even to the avoidance of her chosen husband.

i shut the door after him, that it might cause no disturbance of the quiet that prevailed and when i turned back, i found mr.

peggotty still talking to her.

now, im a going upstairs to tell your aunt as masr davys here, and thatll cheer her up a bit, he said. sit ye down by the fire, the while, my dear, and warm those mortal cold hands. you doent need to be so fearsome, and take on so much. what youll go along with me  well come along with me  come if her uncle was turned out of house and home, and forced to lay down in a dyke, masr davy, said mr. peggotty, with no less pride than before, its my belief shed go along with him, now but therell be someone else, soon,  someone else, soon, emly

afterwards, when i went upstairs, as i passed the door of my little chamber, which was dark, i had an indistinct impression of her being within it, cast down upon the floor. but, whether it was really she, or whether it was a confusion of the shadows in the room, i dont know now.

i had leisure to think, before the kitchen fire, of pretty little emilys dread of death  which, added to what mr. omer had told me, i took to be the cause of her being so unlike herself  and i had leisure, before peggotty came down, even to think more leniently of the weakness of it as i sat counting the ticking of the clock, and deepening my sense of the solemn hush around me. peggotty took me in her arms, and blessed and thanked me over and over again for being such a comfort to her that was what she said in her distress. she then entreated me to come upstairs, sobbing that mr.

barkis had always liked me and admired me that he had often talked of me, before he fell into a stupor and that she believed, in case of his coming to himself again, he would brighten up at sight of me, if he could brighten up at any earthly thing.

the probability of his ever doing so, appeared to me, when i saw him, to be very small. he was lying with his head and shoulders out of bed, in an uncomfortable attitude, half resting on the box which had cost him so much pain and trouble. i learned, that, when he was past creeping out of bed to open it, and past assuring himself of its safety by means of the divining rod i had seen him use, he had required to have it placed on the chair at the bedside, where he had ever since embraced it, night and day. his arm lay on it now. time and the world were slipping from beneath him, but the box was there and the last words he had uttered were in an explanatory tone old clothes

barkis, my dear said peggotty, almost cheerfully bending over him, while her brother and i stood at the beds foot. heres my dear boy  my dear boy, master davy, who brought us together, barkis that you sent messages by, you know wont you speak to master davy

he was as mute and senseless as the box, from which his form derived the only expression it had.

hes a going out with the tide, said mr. peggotty to me, behind his hand.

my eyes were dim and so were mr. peggottys but i repeated in a whisper, with the tide

people cant die, along the coast, said mr. peggotty, except when the tides pretty nigh out. they cant be born, unless its pretty nigh in  not properly born, till flood. hes a going out with the tide. its ebb at halfarter three, slack water half an hour. if he lives till it turns, hell hold his own till past the flood, and go out with the next tide.

we remained there, watching him, a long time  hours. what mysterious influence my presence had upon him in that state of his senses, i shall not pretend to say but when he at last began to wander feebly, it is certain he was muttering about driving me to school.

hes coming to himself, said peggotty.

mr. peggotty touched me, and whispered with much awe and reverence.

they are both agoing out fast.

barkis, my dear said peggotty.

c. p. barkis, he cried faintly. no better woman anywhere

look heres master davy said peggotty. for he now opened his eyes.

i was on the point of asking him if he knew me, when he tried to stretch out his arm, and said to me, distinctly, with a pleasant smile barkis is willin

and, it being low water, he went out with the tide.



chapter 

a greater loss

it was not difficult for me, on peggottys solicitation, to resolve to stay where i was, until after the remains of the poor carrier should have made their last journey to blunderstone. she had long ago bought, out of her own savings, a little piece of ground in our old churchyard near the grave of her sweet girl, as she always called my mother and there they were to rest.

in keeping peggotty company, and doing all i could for her little enough at the utmost, i was as grateful, i rejoice to think, as even now i could wish myself to have been. but i am afraid i had a supreme satisfaction, of a personal and professional nature, in taking charge of mr. barkiss will, and expounding its contents.

i may claim the merit of having originated the suggestion that the will should be looked for in the box. after some search, it was found in the box, at the bottom of a horses nosebag wherein besides hay there was discovered an old gold watch, with chain and seals, which mr. barkis had worn on his weddingday, and which had never been seen before or since a silver tobaccostopper, in the form of a leg an imitation lemon, full of minute cups and saucers, which i have some idea mr. barkis must have purchased to present to me when i was a child, and afterwards found himself unable to part with eightyseven guineas and a half, in guineas and halfguineas two hundred and ten pounds, in perfectly clean bank notes certain receipts for bank of england stock an old horseshoe, a bad shilling, a piece of camphor, and an oystershell.

from the circumstance of the latter article having been much polished, and displaying prismatic colours on the inside, i conclude that mr. barkis had some general ideas about pearls, which never resolved themselves into anything definite.

for years and years, mr. barkis had carried this box, on all his journeys, every day. that it might the better escape notice, he had invented a fiction that it belonged to mr. blackboy, and was to be left with barkis till called for a fable he had elaborately written on the lid, in characters now scarcely legible.

he had hoarded, all these years, i found, to good purpose. his property in money amounted to nearly three thousand pounds. of this he bequeathed the interest of one thousand to mr. peggotty for his life on his decease, the principal to be equally divided between peggotty, little emily, and me, or the survivor or survivors of us, share and share alike. all the rest he died possessed of, he bequeathed to peggotty whom he left residuary legatee, and sole executrix of that his last will and testament.

i felt myself quite a proctor when i read this document aloud with all possible ceremony, and set forth its provisions, any number of times, to those whom they concerned. i began to think there was more in the commons than i had supposed. i examined the will with the deepest attention, pronounced it perfectly formal in all respects, made a pencilmark or so in the margin, and thought it rather extraordinary that i knew so much.

in this abstruse pursuit in making an account for peggotty, of all the property into which she had come in arranging all the affairs in an orderly manner and in being her referee and adviser on every point, to our joint delight i passed the week before the funeral.

i did not see little emily in that interval, but they told me she was to be quietly married in a fortnight.

i did not attend the funeral in character, if i may venture to say so. i mean i was not dressed up in a black coat and a streamer, to frighten the birds but i walked over to blunderstone early in the morning, and was in the churchyard when it came, attended only by peggotty and her brother. the mad gentleman looked on, out of my little window mr. chillips baby wagged its heavy head, and rolled its goggle eyes, at the clergyman, over its nurses shoulder mr.

omer breathed short in the background no one else was there and it was very quiet. we walked about the churchyard for an hour, after all was over and pulled some young leaves from the tree above my mothers grave.

a dread falls on me here. a cloud is lowering on the distant town, towards which i retraced my solitary steps. i fear to approach it.

i cannot bear to think of what did come, upon that memorable night of what must come again, if i go on.

it is no worse, because i write of it. it would be no better, if i stopped my most unwilling hand. it is done. nothing can undo it nothing can make it otherwise than as it was.

my old nurse was to go to london with me next day, on the business of the will. little emily was passing that day at mr. omers. we were all to meet in the old boathouse that night. ham would bring emily at the usual hour. i would walk back at my leisure. the brother and sister would return as they had come, and be expecting us, when the day closed in, at the fireside.

i parted from them at the wicketgate, where visionary strap had rested with roderick randoms knapsack in the days of yore and, instead of going straight back, walked a little distance on the road to lowestoft. then i turned, and walked back towards yarmouth. i stayed to dine at a decent alehouse, some mile or two from the ferry i have mentioned before and thus the day wore away, and it was evening when i reached it. rain was falling heavily by that time, and it was a wild night but there was a moon behind the clouds, and it was not dark.

i was soon within sight of mr. peggottys house, and of the light within it shining through the window. a little floundering across the sand, which was heavy, brought me to the door, and i went in.

it looked very comfortable indeed. mr. peggotty had smoked his evening pipe and there were preparations for some supper by and by.

the fire was bright, the ashes were thrown up, the locker was ready for little emily in her old place. in her own old place sat peggotty, once more, looking but for her dress as if she had never left it. she had fallen back, already, on the society of the workbox with st. pauls upon the lid, the yardmeasure in the cottage, and the bit of waxcandle and there they all were, just as if they had never been disturbed. mrs. gummidge appeared to be fretting a little, in her old corner and consequently looked quite natural, too.

youre first of the lot, masr davy said mr. peggotty with a happy face. doent keep in that coat, sir, if its wet.

thank you, mr. peggotty, said i, giving him my outer coat to hang up. its quite dry.

so tis said mr. peggotty, feeling my shoulders. as a chip

sit ye down, sir. it aint o no use saying welcome to you, but youre welcome, kind and hearty.

thank you, mr. peggotty, i am sure of that. well, peggotty said i, giving her a kiss. and how are you, old woman

ha, ha laughed mr. peggotty, sitting down beside us, and rubbing his hands in his sense of relief from recent trouble, and in the genuine heartiness of his nature theres not a woman in the wureld, sir  as i tell her  that need to feel more easy in her mind than her she done her dooty by the departed, and the departed knowd it and the departed done what was right by her, as she done what was right by the departed  and  and  and its all right

mrs. gummidge groaned.

cheer up, my pritty mawther said mr. peggotty. but he shook his head aside at us, evidently sensible of the tendency of the late occurrences to recall the memory of the old one. doent be down cheer up, for your own self, ony a little bit, and see if a good deal more doent come natral

not to me, danl, returned mrs. gummidge. nothinks natral to me but to be lone and lorn.

no, no, said mr. peggotty, soothing her sorrows.

yes, yes, danl said mrs. gummidge. i aint a person to live with them as has had money left. thinks go too contrary with me.

i had better be a riddance.

why, how should i ever spend it without you said mr. peggotty, with an air of serious remonstrance. what are you a talking on

doent i want you more now, than ever i did

i knowd i was never wanted before cried mrs. gummidge, with a pitiable whimper, and now im told so how could i expect to be wanted, being so lone and lorn, and so contrary

mr. peggotty seemed very much shocked at himself for having made a speech capable of this unfeeling construction, but was prevented from replying, by peggottys pulling his sleeve, and shaking her head. after looking at mrs. gummidge for some moments, in sore distress of mind, he glanced at the dutch clock, rose, snuffed the candle, and put it in the window.

theersaid mr. peggotty, cheerily.theer we are, missis gummidge mrs. gummidge slightly groaned. lighted up, accordin to custom youre a wonderin what thats fur, sir well, its fur our little emly. you see, the path aint over light or cheerful arter dark and when im here at the hour as shes a comin home, i puts the light in the winder. that, you see, said mr. peggotty, bending over me with great glee, meets two objects.

she says, says emly, theers home she says. and likewise, says emly, my uncles theer fur if i aint theer, i never have no light showed.

youre a baby said peggotty very fond of him for it, if she thought so.

well, returned mr. peggotty, standing with his legs pretty wide apart, and rubbing his hands up and down them in his comfortable satisfaction, as he looked alternately at us and at the fire. i doent know but i am. not, you see, to look at.

not azackly, observed peggotty.

no, laughed mr. peggotty, not to look at, but to  to consider on, you know. i doent care, bless you now i tell you. when i go a looking and looking about that theer pritty house of our emlys, im  im gormed, said mr. peggotty, with sudden emphasis  theer i cant say more  if i doent feel as if the littlest things was her, amost. i takes em up and i put em down, and i touches of em as delicate as if they was our emly. so tis with her little bonnets and that. i couldnt see one on em rough used a purpose  not fur the whole wureld. theres a babby fur you, in the form of a great sea porkypine said mr. peggotty, relieving his earnestness with a roar of laughter.

peggotty and i both laughed, but not so loud.

its my opinion, you see, said mr. peggotty, with a delighted face, after some further rubbing of his legs, as this is along of my havin played with her so much, and made believe as we was turks, and french, and sharks, and every wariety of forinners  bless you, yes and lions and whales, and i doent know what all  when she warnt no higher than my knee. ive got into the way on it, you know. why, this here candle, now said mr. peggotty, gleefully holding out his hand towards it, i know wery well that arter shes married and gone, i shall put that candle theer, just the same as now. i know wery well that when im here o nights and where else should i live, bless your arts, whatever fortun i come into and she aint here or i aint theer, i shall put the candle in the winder, and sit afore the fire, pretending im expecting of her, like im a doing now. theres a babby for you, said mr. peggotty, with another roar, in the form of a sea porkypine why, at the present minute, when i see the candle sparkle up, i says to myself, shes a looking at it emlys a coming theres a babby for you, in the form of a sea porkypine

right for all that, said mr. peggotty, stopping in his roar, and smiting his hands together fur here she is

it was only ham. the night should have turned more wet since i came in, for he had a large souwester hat on, slouched over his face.

wheers emly said mr. peggotty.

ham made a motion with his head, as if she were outside. mr.

peggotty took the light from the window, trimmed it, put it on the table, and was busily stirring the fire, when ham, who had not moved, said masr davy, will you come out a minute, and see what emly and me has got to show you

we went out. as i passed him at the door, i saw, to my astonishment and fright, that he was deadly pale. he pushed me hastily into the open air, and closed the door upon us. only upon us two.

ham whats the matter

masr davy  oh, for his broken heart, how dreadfully he wept

i was paralysed by the sight of such grief. i dont know what i thought, or what i dreaded. i could only look at him.

ham poor good fellow for heavens sake, tell me whats the matter

my love, masr davy  the pride and hope of my art  her that id have died for, and would die for now  shes gone

gone

emlys run away oh, masr davy, think how shes run away, when i pray my good and gracious god to kill her her that is so dear above all things sooner than let her come to ruin and disgrace

the face he turned up to the troubled sky, the quivering of his clasped hands, the agony of his figure, remain associated with the lonely waste, in my remembrance, to this hour. it is always night there, and he is the only object in the scene.

youre a scholar, he said, hurriedly, and know whats right and best. what am i to say, indoors how am i ever to break it to him, masr davy

i saw the door move, and instinctively tried to hold the latch on the outside, to gain a moments time. it was too late. mr.

peggotty thrust forth his face and never could i forget the change that came upon it when he saw us, if i were to live five hundred years.

i remember a great wail and cry, and the women hanging about him, and we all standing in the room i with a paper in my hand, which ham had given me mr. peggotty, with his vest torn open, his hair wild, his face and lips quite white, and blood trickling down his bosom it had sprung from his mouth, i think, looking fixedly at me.

read it, sir, he said, in a low shivering voice. slow, please.

i doent know as i can understand.

in the midst of the silence of death, i read thus, from a blotted letter


when you, who love me so much better than i ever have deserved, even when my mind was innocent, see this, i shall be far away.


i shall be fur away, he repeated slowly. stop emly fur away.

well


when i leave my dear home  my dear home  oh, my dear home  in the morning, the letter bore date on the previous night


 it will be never to come back, unless he brings me back a lady.

this will be found at night, many hours after, instead of me. oh, if you knew how my heart is torn. if even you, that i have wronged so much, that never can forgive me, could only know what i suffer

i am too wicked to write about myself oh, take comfort in thinking that i am so bad. oh, for mercys sake, tell uncle that i never loved him half so dear as now. oh, dont remember how affectionate and kind you have all been to me  dont remember we were ever to be married  but try to think as if i died when i was little, and was buried somewhere. pray heaven that i am going away from, have compassion on my uncle tell him that i never loved him half so dear. be his comfort. love some good girl that will be what i was once to uncle, and be true to you, and worthy of you, and know no shame but me. god bless all ill pray for all, often, on my knees. if he dont bring me back a lady, and i dont pray for my own self, ill pray for all. my parting love to uncle.

my last tears, and my last thanks, for uncle

that was all.

he stood, long after i had ceased to read, still looking at me. at length i ventured to take his hand, and to entreat him, as well as i could, to endeavour to get some command of himself. he replied, i thankee, sir, i thankee without moving.

ham spoke to him. mr. peggotty was so far sensible of his affliction, that he wrung his hand but, otherwise, he remained in the same state, and no one dared to disturb him.

slowly, at last, he moved his eyes from my face, as if he were waking from a vision, and cast them round the room. then he said, in a low voice whos the man i want to know his name.

ham glanced at me, and suddenly i felt a shock that struck me back.

theres a man suspected, said mr. peggotty. who is it

masr davy implored ham. go out a bit, and let me tell him what i must. you doent ought to hear it, sir.

i felt the shock again. i sank down in a chair, and tried to utter some reply but my tongue was fettered, and my sight was weak.

i want to know his name i heard said once more.

for some time past, ham faltered, theres been a servant about here, at odd times. theres been a genlmn too. both of em belonged to one another.

mr. peggotty stood fixed as before, but now looking at him.

the servant, pursued ham, was seen along with  our poor girl  last night. hes been in hiding about here, this week or over. he was thought to have gone, but he was hiding. doent stay, masr davy, doent

i felt peggottys arm round my neck, but i could not have moved if the house had been about to fall upon me.

a strange chay and hosses was outside town, this morning, on the norwich road, amost afore the day broke, ham went on. the servant went to it, and come from it, and went to it again. when he went to it again, emly was nigh him. the tother was inside.

hes the man.

for the lords love, said mr. peggotty, falling back, and putting out his hand, as if to keep off what he dreaded. doent tell me his names steerforth

masr davy, exclaimed ham, in a broken voice, it aint no fault of yourn  and i am far from laying of it to you  but his name is steerforth, and hes a damned villain

mr. peggotty uttered no cry, and shed no tear, and moved no more, until he seemed to wake again, all at once, and pulled down his rough coat from its peg in a corner.

bear a hand with this im struck of a heap, and cant do it, he said, impatiently. bear a hand and help me. well when somebody had done so. now give me that theer hat

ham asked him whither he was going.

im a going to seek my niece. im a going to seek my emly. im a going, first, to stave in that theer boat, and sink it where i would have drownded him, as im a living soul, if i had had one thought of what was in him as he sat afore me, he said, wildly, holding out his clenched right hand, as he sat afore me, face to face, strike me down dead, but id have drownded him, and thought it right  im a going to seek my niece.

where cried ham, interposing himself before the door.

anywhere im a going to seek my niece through the wureld. im a going to find my poor niece in her shame, and bring her back. no one stop me i tell you im a going to seek my niece

no, no cried mrs. gummidge, coming between them, in a fit of crying. no, no, danl, not as you are now. seek her in a little while, my lone lorn danl, and thatll be but right but not as you are now. sit ye down, and give me your forgiveness for having ever been a worrit to you, danl  what have my contraries ever been to this  and let us speak a word about them times when she was first an orphan, and when ham was too, and when i was a poor widder woman, and you took me in. itll soften your poor heart, danl, laying her head upon his shoulder, and youll bear your sorrow better for you know the promise, danl, as you have done it unto one of the least of these, you have done it unto me, and that can never fail under this roof, thats been our shelter for so many, many year

he was quite passive now and when i heard him crying, the impulse that had been upon me to go down upon my knees, and ask their pardon for the desolation i had caused, and curse steer forth, yielded to a better feeling, my overcharged heart found the same relief, and i cried too.



chapter 

the beginning of a long journey

what is natural in me, is natural in many other men, i infer, and so i am not afraid to write that i never had loved steerforth better than when the ties that bound me to him were broken. in the keen distress of the discovery of his unworthiness, i thought more of all that was brilliant in him, i softened more towards all that was good in him, i did more justice to the qualities that might have made him a man of a noble nature and a great name, than ever i had done in the height of my devotion to him. deeply as i felt my own unconscious part in his pollution of an honest home, i believed that if i had been brought face to face with him, i could not have uttered one reproach. i should have loved him so well still  though he fascinated me no longer  i should have held in so much tenderness the memory of my affection for him, that i think i should have been as weak as a spiritwounded child, in all but the entertainment of a thought that we could ever be reunited.

that thought i never had. i felt, as he had felt, that all was at an end between us. what his remembrances of me were, i have never known  they were light enough, perhaps, and easily dismissed  but mine of him were as the remembrances of a cherished friend, who was dead.

yes, steerforth, long removed from the scenes of this poor history

my sorrow may bear involuntary witness against you at the judgement throne but my angry thoughts or my reproaches never will, i know

the news of what had happened soon spread through the town insomuch that as i passed along the streets next morning, i overheard the people speaking of it at their doors. many were hard upon her, some few were hard upon him, but towards her second father and her lover there was but one sentiment. among all kinds of people a respect for them in their distress prevailed, which was full of gentleness and delicacy. the seafaring men kept apart, when those two were seen early, walking with slow steps on the beach and stood in knots, talking compassionately among themselves.

it was on the beach, close down by the sea, that i found them. it would have been easy to perceive that they had not slept all last night, even if peggotty had failed to tell me of their still sitting just as i left them, when it was broad day. they looked worn and i thought mr. peggottys head was bowed in one night more than in all the years i had known him. but they were both as grave and steady as the sea itself, then lying beneath a dark sky, waveless  yet with a heavy roll upon it, as if it breathed in its rest  and touched, on the horizon, with a strip of silvery light from the unseen sun.

we have had a mort of talk, sir, said mr. peggotty to me, when we had all three walked a little while in silence, of what we ought and doent ought to do. but we see our course now.

i happened to glance at ham, then looking out to sea upon the distant light, and a frightful thought came into my mind  not that his face was angry, for it was not i recall nothing but an expression of stern determination in it  that if ever he encountered steerforth, he would kill him.

my dooty here, sir, said mr. peggotty, is done. im a going to seek my  he stopped, and went on in a firmer voice im a going to seek her. thats my dooty evermore.

he shook his head when i asked him where he would seek her, and inquired if i were going to london tomorrow i told him i had not gone today, fearing to lose the chance of being of any service to him but that i was ready to go when he would.

ill go along with you, sir, he rejoined, if youre agreeable, tomorrow.

we walked again, for a while, in silence.

ham,he presently resumed,hell hold to his present work, and go and live along with my sister. the old boat yonder 

will you desert the old boat, mr. peggotty i gently interposed.

my station, masr davy, he returned, aint there no longer and if ever a boat foundered, since there was darkness on the face of the deep, that ones gone down. but no, sir, no i doent mean as it should be deserted. fur from that.

we walked again for a while, as before, until he explained my wishes is, sir, as it shall look, day and night, winter and summer, as it has always looked, since she fust knowd it. if ever she should come a wandering back, i wouldnt have the old place seem to cast her off, you understand, but seem to tempt her to draw nigher to t, and to peep in, maybe, like a ghost, out of the wind and rain, through the old winder, at the old seat by the fire.

then, maybe, masr davy, seein none but missis gummidge there, she might take heart to creep in, trembling and might come to be laid down in her old bed, and rest her weary head where it was once so gay.

i could not speak to him in reply, though i tried.

every night, said mr. peggotty, as reglar as the night comes, the candle must be stood in its old pane of glass, that if ever she should see it, it may seem to say come back, my child, come back

if ever theres a knock, ham particler a soft knock, arter dark, at your aunts door, doent you go nigh it. let it be her  not you  that sees my fallen child

he walked a little in front of us, and kept before us for some minutes. during this interval, i glanced at ham again, and observing the same expression on his face, and his eyes still directed to the distant light, i touched his arm.

twice i called him by his name, in the tone in which i might have tried to rouse a sleeper, before he heeded me. when i at last inquired on what his thoughts were so bent, he replied on whats afore me, masr davy and over yon.

on the life before you, do you mean he had pointed confusedly out to sea.

ay, masr davy. i doent rightly know how tis, but from over yon there seemed to me to come  the end of it like, looking at me as if he were waking, but with the same determined face.

what end i asked, possessed by my former fear.

i doent know,he said, thoughtfully i was calling to mind that the beginning of it all did take place here  and then the end come. but its gone masr davy, he added answering, as i think, my look you hant no call to be afeerd of me but im kiender muddled i dont fare to feel no matters,  which was as much as to say that he was not himself, and quite confounded.

mr. peggotty stopping for us to join him we did so, and said no more. the remembrance of this, in connexion with my former thought, however, haunted me at intervals, even until the inexorable end came at its appointed time.

we insensibly approached the old boat, and entered. mrs. gummidge, no longer moping in her especial corner, was busy preparing breakfast. she took mr. peggottys hat, and placed his seat for him, and spoke so comfortably and softly, that i hardly knew her.

danl, my good man, said she, you must eat and drink, and keep up your strength, for without it youll do nowt. try, thats a dear soul an if i disturb you with my clicketten, she meant her chattering, tell me so, danl, and i wont.

when she had served us all, she withdrew to the window, where she sedulously employed herself in repairing some shirts and other clothes belonging to mr. peggotty, and neatly folding and packing them in an old oilskin bag, such as sailors carry. meanwhile, she continued talking, in the same quiet manner all times and seasons, you know, danl, said mrs. gummidge, i shall be allus here, and everythink will look accordin to your wishes. im a poor scholar, but i shall write to you, odd times, when youre away, and send my letters to masr davy. maybe youll write to me too, danl, odd times, and tell me how you fare to feel upon your lone lorn journies.

youll be a solitary woman heer, im afeerd said mr. peggotty.

no, no, danl, she returned, i shant be that. doent you mind me. i shall have enough to do to keep a beein for you mrs.

gummidge meant a home, again you come back  to keep a beein here for any that may hap to come back, danl. in the fine time, i shall set outside the door as i used to do. if any should come nigh, they shall see the old widder woman true to em, a long way off.

what a change in mrs. gummidge in a little time she was another woman. she was so devoted, she had such a quick perception of what it would be well to say, and what it would be well to leave unsaid she was so forgetful of herself, and so regardful of the sorrow about her, that i held her in a sort of veneration. the work she did that day there were many things to be brought up from the beach and stored in the outhouse  as oars, nets, sails, cordage, spars, lobsterpots, bags of ballast, and the like and though there was abundance of assistance rendered, there being not a pair of working hands on all that shore but would have laboured hard for mr. peggotty, and been well paid in being asked to do it, yet she persisted, all day long, in toiling under weights that she was quite unequal to, and fagging to and fro on all sorts of unnecessary errands. as to deploring her misfortunes, she appeared to have entirely lost the recollection of ever having had any. she preserved an equable cheerfulness in the midst of her sympathy, which was not the least astonishing part of the change that had come over her. querulousness was out of the question. i did not even observe her voice to falter, or a tear to escape from her eyes, the whole day through, until twilight when she and i and mr.

peggotty being alone together, and he having fallen asleep in perfect exhaustion, she broke into a halfsuppressed fit of sobbing and crying, and taking me to the door, said, ever bless you, masr davy, be a friend to him, poor dear then, she immediately ran out of the house to wash her face, in order that she might sit quietly beside him, and be found at work there, when he should awake. in short i left her, when i went away at night, the prop and staff of mr. peggottys affliction and i could not meditate enough upon the lesson that i read in mrs. gummidge, and the new experience she unfolded to me.

it was between nine and ten oclock when, strolling in a melancholy manner through the town, i stopped at mr. omers door. mr. omer had taken it so much to heart, his daughter told me, that he had been very low and poorly all day, and had gone to bed without his pipe.

a deceitful, badhearted girl, said mrs. joram. there was no good in her, ever

dont say so, i returned. you dont think so.

yes, i do cried mrs. joram, angrily.

no, no, said i.

mrs. joram tossed her head, endeavouring to be very stern and cross but she could not command her softer self, and began to cry.

i was young, to be sure but i thought much the better of her for this sympathy, and fancied it became her, as a virtuous wife and mother, very well indeed.

what will she ever do sobbed minnie. where will she go what will become of her oh, how could she be so cruel, to herself and him

i remembered the time when minnie was a young and pretty girl and i was glad she remembered it too, so feelingly.

my little minnie, said mrs. joram, has only just now been got to sleep. even in her sleep she is sobbing for emly. all day long, little minnie has cried for her, and asked me, over and over again, whether emly was wicked what can i say to her, when emly tied a ribbon off her own neck round little minnies the last night she was here, and laid her head down on the pillow beside her till she was fast asleep the ribbons round my little minnies neck now.

it ought not to be, perhaps, but what can i do emly is very bad, but they were fond of one another. and the child knows nothing

mrs. joram was so unhappy that her husband came out to take care of her. leaving them together, i went home to peggottys more melancholy myself, if possible, than i had been yet.

that good creature  i mean peggotty  all untired by her late anxieties and sleepless nights, was at her brothers, where she meant to stay till morning. an old woman, who had been employed about the house for some weeks past, while peggotty had been unable to attend to it, was the houses only other occupant besides myself. as i had no occasion for her services, i sent her to bed, by no means against her will, and sat down before the kitchen fire a little while, to think about all this.

i was blending it with the deathbed of the late mr. barkis, and was driving out with the tide towards the distance at which ham had looked so singularly in the morning, when i was recalled from my wanderings by a knock at the door. there was a knocker upon the door, but it was not that which made the sound. the tap was from a hand, and low down upon the door, as if it were given by a child.

it made me start as much as if it had been the knock of a footman to a person of distinction. i opened the door and at first looked down, to my amazement, on nothing but a great umbrella that appeared to be walking about of itself. but presently i discovered underneath it, miss mowcher.

i might not have been prepared to give the little creature a very kind reception, if, on her removing the umbrella, which her utmost efforts were unable to shut up, she had shown me the volatile expression of face which had made so great an impression on me at our first and last meeting. but her face, as she turned it up to mine, was so earnest and when i relieved her of the umbrella which would have been an inconvenient one for the irish giant, she wrung her little hands in such an afflicted manner that i rather inclined towards her.

miss mowcher said i, after glancing up and down the empty street, without distinctly knowing what i expected to see besides how do you come here what is the matter

she motioned to me with her short right arm, to shut the umbrella for her and passing me hurriedly, went into the kitchen. when i had closed the door, and followed, with the umbrella in my hand, i found her sitting on the corner of the fender  it was a low iron one, with two flat bars at top to stand plates upon  in the shadow of the boiler, swaying herself backwards and forwards, and chafing her hands upon her knees like a person in pain.

quite alarmed at being the only recipient of this untimely visit, and the only spectator of this portentous behaviour, i exclaimed again, pray tell me, miss mowcher, what is the matter are you ill

my dear young soul, returned miss mowcher, squeezing her hands upon her heart one over the other. i am ill here, i am very ill.

to think that it should come to this, when i might have known it and perhaps prevented it, if i hadnt been a thoughtless fool

again her large bonnet very disproportionate to the figure went backwards and forwards, in her swaying of her little body to and fro while a most gigantic bonnet rocked, in unison with it, upon the wall.

i am surprised, i began, to see you so distressed and seriouswhen she interrupted me.

yes, its always so she said. they are all surprised, these inconsiderate young people, fairly and full grown, to see any natural feeling in a little thing like me they make a plaything of me, use me for their amusement, throw me away when they are tired, and wonder that i feel more than a toy horse or a wooden soldier yes, yes, thats the way. the old way

it may be, with others, i returned, but i do assure you it is not with me. perhaps i ought not to be at all surprised to see you as you are now i know so little of you. i said, without consideration, what i thought.

what can i do returned the little woman, standing up, and holding out her arms to show herself. see what i am, my father was and my sister is and my brother is. i have worked for sister and brother these many years  hard, mr. copperfield  all day. i must live. i do no harm. if there are people so unreflecting or so cruel, as to make a jest of me, what is left for me to do but to make a jest of myself, them, and everything if i do so, for the time, whose fault is that mine

no. not miss mowchers, i perceived.

if i had shown myself a sensitive dwarf to your false friend, pursued the little woman, shaking her head at me, with reproachful earnestness, how much of his help or good will do you think i should ever have had if little mowcher who had no hand, young gentleman, in the making of herself addressed herself to him, or the like of him, because of her misfortunes, when do you suppose her small voice would have been heard little mowcher would have as much need to live, if she was the bitterest and dullest of pigmies but she couldnt do it. no. she might whistle for her bread and butter till she died of air.

miss mowcher sat down on the fender again, and took out her handkerchief, and wiped her eyes.

be thankful for me, if you have a kind heart, as i think you have, she said, that while i know well what i am, i can be cheerful and endure it all. i am thankful for myself, at any rate, that i can find my tiny way through the world, without being beholden to anyone and that in return for all that is thrown at me, in folly or vanity, as i go along, i can throw bubbles back.

if i dont brood over all i want, it is the better for me, and not the worse for anyone. if i am a plaything for you giants, be gentle with me.

miss mowcher replaced her handkerchief in her pocket, looking at me with very intent expression all the while, and pursued i saw you in the street just now. you may suppose i am not able to walk as fast as you, with my short legs and short breath, and i couldnt overtake you but i guessed where you came, and came after you. i have been here before, today, but the good woman wasnt at home.

do you know her i demanded.

i know of her, and about her, she replied, from omer and joram.

i was there at seven oclock this morning. do you remember what steerforth said to me about this unfortunate girl, that time when i saw you both at the inn

the great bonnet on miss mowchers head, and the greater bonnet on the wall, began to go backwards and forwards again when she asked this question.

i remembered very well what she referred to, having had it in my thoughts many times that day. i told her so.

may the father of all evil confound him, said the little woman, holding up her forefinger between me and her sparkling eyes, and ten times more confound that wicked servant but i believed it was you who had a boyish passion for her

i i repeated.

child, child in the name of blind illfortune, cried miss mowcher, wringing her hands impatiently, as she went to and fro again upon the fender, why did you praise her so, and blush, and look disturbed

i could not conceal from myself that i had done this, though for a reason very different from her supposition.

what did i know said miss mowcher, taking out her handkerchief again, and giving one little stamp on the ground whenever, at short intervals, she applied it to her eyes with both hands at once. he was crossing you and wheedling you, i saw and you were soft wax in his hands, i saw. had i left the room a minute, when his man told me that young innocence so he called you, and you may call him old guilt all the days of your life had set his heart upon her, and she was giddy and liked him, but his master was resolved that no harm should come of it  more for your sake than for hers  and that that was their business here how could i but believe him

i saw steerforth soothe and please you by his praise of her you were the first to mention her name. you owned to an old admiration of her. you were hot and cold, and red and white, all at once when i spoke to you of her. what could i think  what did i think  but that you were a young libertine in everything but experience, and had fallen into hands that had experience enough, and could manage you having the fancy for your own good oh oh oh they were afraid of my finding out the truth, exclaimed miss mowcher, getting off the fender, and trotting up and down the kitchen with her two short arms distressfully lifted up, because i am a sharp little thing  i need be, to get through the world at all  and they deceived me altogether, and i gave the poor unfortunate girl a letter, which i fully believe was the beginning of her ever speaking to littimer, who was left behind on purpose

i stood amazed at the revelation of all this perfidy, looking at miss mowcher as she walked up and down the kitchen until she was out of breath when she sat upon the fender again, and, drying her face with her handkerchief, shook her head for a long time, without otherwise moving, and without breaking silence.

my country rounds, she added at length, brought me to norwich, mr. copperfield, the night before last. what i happened to find there, about their secret way of coming and going, without you  which was strange  led to my suspecting something wrong. i got into the coach from london last night, as it came through norwich, and was here this morning. oh, oh, oh too late

poor little mowcher turned so chilly after all her crying and fretting, that she turned round on the fender, putting her poor little wet feet in among the ashes to warm them, and sat looking at the fire, like a large doll. i sat in a chair on the other side of the hearth, lost in unhappy reflections, and looking at the fire too, and sometimes at her.

i must go, she said at last, rising as she spoke. its late.

you dont mistrust me

meeting her sharp glance, which was as sharp as ever when she asked me, i could not on that short challenge answer no, quite frankly.

come said she, accepting the offer of my hand to help her over the fender, and looking wistfully up into my face, you know you wouldnt mistrust me, if i was a fullsized woman

i felt that there was much truth in this and i felt rather ashamed of myself.

you are a young man, she said, nodding. take a word of advice, even from three foot nothing. try not to associate bodily defects with mental, my good friend, except for a solid reason.

she had got over the fender now, and i had got over my suspicion.

i told her that i believed she had given me a faithful account of herself, and that we had both been hapless instruments in designing hands. she thanked me, and said i was a good fellow.

now, mind she exclaimed, turning back on her way to the door, and looking shrewdly at me, with her forefinger up again. i have some reason to suspect, from what i have heard  my ears are always open i cant afford to spare what powers i have  that they are gone abroad. but if ever they return, if ever any one of them returns, while i am alive, i am more likely than another, going about as i do, to find it out soon. whatever i know, you shall know. if ever i can do anything to serve the poor betrayed girl, i will do it faithfully, please heaven and littimer had better have a bloodhound at his back, than little mowcher

i placed implicit faith in this last statement, when i marked the look with which it was accompanied.

trust me no more, but trust me no less, than you would trust a fullsized woman, said the little creature, touching me appealingly on the wrist. if ever you see me again, unlike what i am now, and like what i was when you first saw me, observe what company i am in. call to mind that i am a very helpless and defenceless little thing. think of me at home with my brother like myself and sister like myself, when my days work is done. perhaps you wont, then, be very hard upon me, or surprised if i can be distressed and serious. good night

i gave miss mowcher my hand, with a very different opinion of her from that which i had hitherto entertained, and opened the door to let her out. it was not a trifling business to get the great umbrella up, and properly balanced in her grasp but at last i successfully accomplished this, and saw it go bobbing down the street through the rain, without the least appearance of having anybody underneath it, except when a heavier fall than usual from some overcharged waterspout sent it toppling over, on one side, and discovered miss mowcher struggling violently to get it right.

after making one or two sallies to her relief, which were rendered futile by the umbrellas hopping on again, like an immense bird, before i could reach it, i came in, went to bed, and slept till morning.

in the morning i was joined by mr. peggotty and by my old nurse, and we went at an early hour to the coach office, where mrs.

gummidge and ham were waiting to take leave of us.

masr davy, ham whispered, drawing me aside, while mr. peggotty was stowing his bag among the luggage, his life is quite broke up.

he doent know wheer hes going he doent know whats afore him hes bound upon a voyage thatll last, on and off, all the rest of his days, take my wured for t, unless he finds what hes a seeking of. i am sure youll be a friend to him, masr davy

trust me, i will indeed, said i, shaking hands with ham earnestly.

thankee. thankee, very kind, sir. one thing furder. im in good employ, you know, masr davy, and i hant no way now of spending what i gets. moneys of no use to me no more, except to live. if you can lay it out for him, i shall do my work with a better art.

though as to that, sir, and he spoke very steadily and mildly, youre not to think but i shall work at all times, like a man, and act the best that lays in my power

i told him i was well convinced of it and i hinted that i hoped the time might even come, when he would cease to lead the lonely life he naturally contemplated now.

no, sir, he said, shaking his head, all thats past and over with me, sir. no one can never fill the place thats empty. but youll bear in mind about the money, as theers at all times some laying by for him

reminding him of the fact, that mr. peggotty derived a steady, though certainly a very moderate income from the bequest of his late brotherinlaw, i promised to do so. we then took leave of each other. i cannot leave him even now, without remembering with a pang, at once his modest fortitude and his great sorrow.

as to mrs. gummidge, if i were to endeavour to describe how she ran down the street by the side of the coach, seeing nothing but mr.

peggotty on the roof, through the tears she tried to repress, and dashing herself against the people who were coming in the opposite direction, i should enter on a task of some difficulty. therefore i had better leave her sitting on a bakers doorstep, out of breath, with no shape at all remaining in her bonnet, and one of her shoes off, lying on the pavement at a considerable distance.

when we got to our journeys end, our first pursuit was to look about for a little lodging for peggotty, where her brother could have a bed. we were so fortunate as to find one, of a very clean and cheap description, over a chandlers shop, only two streets removed from me. when we had engaged this domicile, i bought some cold meat at an eatinghouse, and took my fellowtravellers home to tea a proceeding, i regret to state, which did not meet with mrs.

crupps approval, but quite the contrary. i ought to observe, however, in explanation of that ladys state of mind, that she was much offended by peggottys tucking up her widows gown before she had been ten minutes in the place, and setting to work to dust my bedroom. this mrs. crupp regarded in the light of a liberty, and a liberty, she said, was a thing she never allowed.

mr. peggotty had made a communication to me on the way to london for which i was not unprepared. it was, that he purposed first seeing mrs. steerforth. as i felt bound to assist him in this, and also to mediate between them with the view of sparing the mothers feelings as much as possible, i wrote to her that night. i told her as mildly as i could what his wrong was, and what my own share in his injury. i said he was a man in very common life, but of a most gentle and upright character and that i ventured to express a hope that she would not refuse to see him in his heavy trouble.

i mentioned two oclock in the afternoon as the hour of our coming, and i sent the letter myself by the first coach in the morning.

at the appointed time, we stood at the door  the door of that house where i had been, a few days since, so happy where my youthful confidence and warmth of heart had been yielded up so freely which was closed against me henceforth which was now a waste, a ruin.

no littimer appeared. the pleasanter face which had replaced his, on the occasion of my last visit, answered to our summons, and went before us to the drawingroom. mrs. steerforth was sitting there.

rosa dartle glided, as we went in, from another part of the room and stood behind her chair.

i saw, directly, in his mothers face, that she knew from himself what he had done. it was very pale and bore the traces of deeper emotion than my letter alone, weakened by the doubts her fondness would have raised upon it, would have been likely to create. i thought her more like him than ever i had thought her and i felt, rather than saw, that the resemblance was not lost on my companion.

she sat upright in her armchair, with a stately, immovable, passionless air, that it seemed as if nothing could disturb. she looked very steadfastly at mr. peggotty when he stood before her and he looked quite as steadfastly at her. rosa dartles keen glance comprehended all of us. for some moments not a word was spoken.

she motioned to mr. peggotty to be seated. he said, in a low voice, i shouldnt feel it natral, maam, to sit down in this house. id sooner stand. and this was succeeded by another silence, which she broke thus i know, with deep regret, what has brought you here. what do you want of me what do you ask me to do

he put his hat under his arm, and feeling in his breast for emilys letter, took it out, unfolded it, and gave it to her.

please to read that, maam. thats my nieces hand

she read it, in the same stately and impassive way,  untouched by its contents, as far as i could see,  and returned it to him.

unless he brings me back a lady, said mr. peggotty, tracing out that part with his finger. i come to know, maam, whether he will keep his wured

no, she returned.

why not said mr. peggotty.

it is impossible. he would disgrace himself. you cannot fail to know that she is far below him.

raise her up said mr. peggotty.

she is uneducated and ignorant.

maybe shes not maybe she is, said mr. peggotty. i think not, maam but im no judge of them things. teach her better

since you oblige me to speak more plainly, which i am very unwilling to do, her humble connexions would render such a thing impossible, if nothing else did.

hark to this, maam, he returned, slowly and quietly. you know what it is to love your child. so do i. if she was a hundred times my child, i couldnt love her more. you doent know what it is to lose your child. i do. all the heaps of riches in the wureld would be nowt to me if they was mine to buy her back

but, save her from this disgrace, and she shall never be disgraced by us. not one of us that shes growed up among, not one of us thats lived along with her and had her for their all in all, these many year, will ever look upon her pritty face again. well be content to let her be well be content to think of her, far off, as if she was underneath another sun and sky well be content to trust her to her husband,  to her little children, praps,  and bide the time when all of us shall be alike in quality afore our god

the rugged eloquence with which he spoke, was not devoid of all effect. she still preserved her proud manner, but there was a touch of softness in her voice, as she answered i justify nothing. i make no counteraccusations. but i am sorry to repeat, it is impossible. such a marriage would irretrievably blight my sons career, and ruin his prospects. nothing is more certain than that it never can take place, and never will. if there is any other compensation 

i am looking at the likeness of the face, interrupted mr.

peggotty, with a steady but a kindling eye, that has looked at me, in my home, at my fireside, in my boat  wheer not  smiling and friendly, when it was so treacherous, that i go half wild when i think of it. if the likeness of that face dont turn to burning fire, at the thought of offering money to me for my childs blight and ruin, its as bad. i doent know, being a ladys, but what its worse.

she changed now, in a moment. an angry flush overspread her features and she said, in an intolerant manner, grasping the armchair tightly with her hands what compensation can you make to me for opening such a pit between me and my son what is your love to mine what is your separation to ours

miss dartle softly touched her, and bent down her head to whisper, but she would not hear a word.

no, rosa, not a word let the man listen to what i say my son, who has been the object of my life, to whom its every thought has been devoted, whom i have gratified from a child in every wish, from whom i have had no separate existence since his birth,  to take up in a moment with a miserable girl, and avoid me to repay my confidence with systematic deception, for her sake, and quit me for her to set this wretched fancy, against his mothers claims upon his duty, love, respect, gratitude  claims that every day and hour of his life should have strengthened into ties that nothing could be proof against is this no injury

again rosa dartle tried to soothe her again ineffectually.

i say, rosa, not a word if he can stake his all upon the lightest object, i can stake my all upon a greater purpose. let him go where he will, with the means that my love has secured to him does he think to reduce me by long absence he knows his mother very little if he does. let him put away his whim now, and he is welcome back. let him not put her away now, and he never shall come near me, living or dying, while i can raise my hand to make a sign against it, unless, being rid of her for ever, he comes humbly to me and begs for my forgiveness. this is my right. this is the acknowledgement i will have. this is the separation that there is between us and is this, she added, looking at her visitor with the proud intolerant air with which she had begun, no injury

while i heard and saw the mother as she said these words, i seemed to hear and see the son, defying them. all that i had ever seen in him of an unyielding, wilful spirit, i saw in her. all the understanding that i had now of his misdirected energy, became an understanding of her character too, and a perception that it was, in its strongest springs, the same.

she now observed to me, aloud, resuming her former restraint, that it was useless to hear more, or to say more, and that she begged to put an end to the interview. she rose with an air of dignity to leave the room, when mr. peggotty signified that it was needless.

doent fear me being any hindrance to you, i have no more to say, maam, he remarked, as he moved towards the door. i come beer with no hope, and i take away no hope. i have done what i thowt should be done, but i never looked fur any good to come of my stanning where i do. this has been too evil a house fur me and mine, fur me to be in my right senses and expect it.

with this, we departed leaving her standing by her elbowchair, a picture of a noble presence and a handsome face.

we had, on our way out, to cross a paved hall, with glass sides and roof, over which a vine was trained. its leaves and shoots were green then, and the day being sunny, a pair of glass doors leading to the garden were thrown open. rosa dartle, entering this way with a noiseless step, when we were close to them, addressed herself to me you do well, she said, indeed, to bring this fellow here

such a concentration of rage and scorn as darkened her face, and flashed in her jetblack eyes, i could not have thought compressible even into that face. the scar made by the hammer was, as usual in this excited state of her features, strongly marked.

when the throbbing i had seen before, came into it as i looked at her, she absolutely lifted up her hand, and struck it.

this is a fellow, she said, to champion and bring here, is he not you are a true man

miss dartle, i returned, you are surely not so unjust as to condemn me

why do you bring division between these two mad creatures she returned. dont you know that they are both mad with their own selfwill and pride

is it my doing i returned.

is it your doing she retorted. why do you bring this man here

he is a deeplyinjured man, miss dartle, i replied. you may not know it.

i know that james steerforth, she said, with her hand on her bosom, as if to prevent the storm that was raging there, from being loud, has a false, corrupt heart, and is a traitor. but what need i know or care about this fellow, and his common niece

miss dartle, i returned, you deepen the injury. it is sufficient already. i will only say, at parting, that you do him a great wrong.

i do him no wrong, she returned. they are a depraved, worthless set. i would have her whipped

mr. peggotty passed on, without a word, and went out at the door.

oh, shame, miss dartle shame i said indignantly. how can you bear to trample on his undeserved affliction

i would trample on them all, she answered. i would have his house pulled down. i would have her branded on the face, dressed in rags, and cast out in the streets to starve. if i had the power to sit in judgement on her, i would see it done. see it done i would do it i detest her. if i ever could reproach her with her infamous condition, i would go anywhere to do so. if i could hunt her to her grave, i would. if there was any word of comfort that would be a solace to her in her dying hour, and only i possessed it, i wouldnt part with it for life itself.

the mere vehemence of her words can convey, i am sensible, but a weak impression of the passion by which she was possessed, and which made itself articulate in her whole figure, though her voice, instead of being raised, was lower than usual. no description i could give of her would do justice to my recollection of her, or to her entire deliverance of herself to her anger. i have seen passion in many forms, but i have never seen it in such a form as that.

when i joined mr. peggotty, he was walking slowly and thoughtfully down the hill. he told me, as soon as i came up with him, that having now discharged his mind of what he had purposed doing in london, he meant to set out on his travels, that night. i asked him where he meant to go he only answered, im a going, sir, to seek my niece.

we went back to the little lodging over the chandlers shop, and there i found an opportunity of repeating to peggotty what he had said to me. she informed me, in return, that he had said the same to her that morning. she knew no more than i did, where he was going, but she thought he had some project shaped out in his mind.

i did not like to leave him, under such circumstances, and we all three dined together off a beefsteak pie  which was one of the many good things for which peggotty was famous  and which was curiously flavoured on this occasion, i recollect well, by a miscellaneous taste of tea, coffee, butter, bacon, cheese, new loaves, firewood, candles, and walnut ketchup, continually ascending from the shop. after dinner we sat for an hour or so near the window, without talking much and then mr. peggotty got up, and brought his oilskin bag and his stout stick, and laid them on the table.

he accepted, from his sisters stock of ready money, a small sum on account of his legacy barely enough, i should have thought, to keep him for a month. he promised to communicate with me, when anything befell him and he slung his bag about him, took his hat and stick, and bade us both goodbye

all good attend you, dear old woman, he said, embracing peggotty, and you too, masr davy shaking hands with me. im agoing to seek her, fur and wide. if she should come home while im away  but ah, that aint like to be  or if i should bring her back, my meaning is, that she and me shall live and die where no one cant reproach her. if any hurt should come to me, remember that the last words i left for her was, my unchanged love is with my darling child, and i forgive her

he said this solemnly, bareheaded then, putting on his hat, he went down the stairs, and away. we followed to the door. it was a warm, dusty evening, just the time when, in the great main thoroughfare out of which that byway turned, there was a temporary lull in the eternal tread of feet upon the pavement, and a strong red sunshine. he turned, alone, at the corner of our shady street, into a glow of light, in which we lost him.

rarely did that hour of the evening come, rarely did i wake at night, rarely did i look up at the moon, or stars, or watch the falling rain, or hear the wind, but i thought of his solitary figure toiling on, poor pilgrim, and recalled the words im a going to seek her, fur and wide. if any hurt should come to me, remember that the last words i left for her was, my unchanged love is with my darling child, and i forgive her



chapter 

blissful

all this time, i had gone on loving dora, harder than ever. her idea was my refuge in disappointment and distress, and made some amends to me, even for the loss of my friend. the more i pitied myself, or pitied others, the more i sought for consolation in the image of dora. the greater the accumulation of deceit and trouble in the world, the brighter and the purer shone the star of dora high above the world. i dont think i had any definite idea where dora came from, or in what degree she was related to a higher order of beings but i am quite sure i should have scouted the notion of her being simply human, like any other young lady, with indignation and contempt.

if i may so express it, i was steeped in dora. i was not merely over head and ears in love with her, but i was saturated through and through. enough love might have been wrung out of me, metaphorically speaking, to drown anybody in and yet there would have remained enough within me, and all over me, to pervade my entire existence.

the first thing i did, on my own account, when i came back, was to take a nightwalk to norwood, and, like the subject of a venerable riddle of my childhood, to go round and round the house, without ever touching the house, thinking about dora. i believe the theme of this incomprehensible conundrum was the moon. no matter what it was, i, the moonstruck slave of dora, perambulated round and round the house and garden for two hours, looking through crevices in the palings, getting my chin by dint of violent exertion above the rusty nails on the top, blowing kisses at the lights in the windows, and romantically calling on the night, at intervals, to shield my dora  i dont exactly know what from, i suppose from fire. perhaps from mice, to which she had a great objection.

my love was so much in my mind and it was so natural to me to confide in peggotty, when i found her again by my side of an evening with the old set of industrial implements, busily making the tour of my wardrobe, that i imparted to her, in a sufficiently roundabout way, my great secret. peggotty was strongly interested, but i could not get her into my view of the case at all. she was audaciously prejudiced in my favour, and quite unable to understand why i should have any misgivings, or be lowspirited about it.

the young lady might think herself well off, she observed, to have such a beau. and as to her pa, she said, what did the gentleman expect, for gracious sake

i observed, however, that mr. spenlows proctorial gown and stiff cravat took peggotty down a little, and inspired her with a greater reverence for the man who was gradually becoming more and more etherealized in my eyes every day, and about whom a reflected radiance seemed to me to beam when he sat erect in court among his papers, like a little lighthouse in a sea of stationery. and by the by, it used to be uncommonly strange to me to consider, i remember, as i sat in court too, how those dim old judges and doctors wouldnt have cared for dora, if they had known her how they wouldnt have gone out of their senses with rapture, if marriage with dora had been proposed to them how dora might have sung, and played upon that glorified guitar, until she led me to the verge of madness, yet not have tempted one of those slowgoers an inch out of his road

i despised them, to a man. frozenout old gardeners in the flowerbeds of the heart, i took a personal offence against them all. the bench was nothing to me but an insensible blunderer. the bar had no more tenderness or poetry in it, than the bar of a publichouse.

taking the management of peggottys affairs into my own hands, with no little pride, i proved the will, and came to a settlement with the legacy dutyoffice, and took her to the bank, and soon got everything into an orderly train. we varied the legal character of these proceedings by going to see some perspiring waxwork, in fleet street melted, i should hope, these twenty years and by visiting miss linwoods exhibition, which i remember as a mausoleum of needlework, favourable to selfexamination and repentance and by inspecting the tower of london and going to the top of st.

pauls. all these wonders afforded peggotty as much pleasure as she was able to enjoy, under existing circumstances except, i think, st. pauls, which, from her long attachment to her workbox, became a rival of the picture on the lid, and was, in some particulars, vanquished, she considered, by that work of art.

peggottys business, which was what we used to call commonform business in the commons and very light and lucrative the commonform business was, being settled, i took her down to the office one morning to pay her bill. mr. spenlow had stepped out, old tiffey said, to get a gentleman sworn for a marriage licence but as i knew he would be back directly, our place lying close to the surrogates, and to the vicargenerals office too, i told peggotty to wait.

we were a little like undertakers, in the commons, as regarded probate transactions generally making it a rule to look more or less cut up, when we had to deal with clients in mourning. in a similar feeling of delicacy, we were always blithe and lighthearted with the licence clients. therefore i hinted to peggotty that she would find mr. spenlow much recovered from the shock of mr. barkiss decease and indeed he came in like a bridegroom.

but neither peggotty nor i had eyes for him, when we saw, in company with him, mr. murdstone. he was very little changed. his hair looked as thick, and was certainly as black, as ever and his glance was as little to be trusted as of old.

ah, copperfield said mr. spenlow. you know this gentleman, i believe

i made my gentleman a distant bow, and peggotty barely recognized him. he was, at first, somewhat disconcerted to meet us two together but quickly decided what to do, and came up to me.

i hope, he said, that you are doing well

it can hardly be interesting to you, said i. yes, if you wish to know.

we looked at each other, and he addressed himself to peggotty.

and you, said he. i am sorry to observe that you have lost your husband.

its not the first loss i have had in my life, mr. murdstone, replied peggotty, trembling from head to foot. i am glad to hope that there is nobody to blame for this one,  nobody to answer for it.

ha said he thats a comfortable reflection. you have done your duty

i have not worn anybodys life away, said peggotty, i am thankful to think no, mr. murdstone, i have not worrited and frightened any sweet creetur to an early grave

he eyed her gloomily  remorsefully i thought  for an instant and said, turning his head towards me, but looking at my feet instead of my face we are not likely to encounter soon again  a source of satisfaction to us both, no doubt, for such meetings as this can never be agreeable. i do not expect that you, who always rebelled against my just authority, exerted for your benefit and reformation, should owe me any goodwill now. there is an antipathy between us 

an old one, i believe said i, interrupting him.

he smiled, and shot as evil a glance at me as could come from his dark eyes.

it rankled in your baby breast, he said. it embittered the life of your poor mother. you are right. i hope you may do better, yet i hope you may correct yourself.

here he ended the dialogue, which had been carried on in a low voice, in a corner of the outer office, by passing into mr.

spenlows room, and saying aloud, in his smoothest manner gentlemen of mr. spenlows profession are accustomed to family differences, and know how complicated and difficult they always are with that, he paid the money for his licence and, receiving it neatly folded from mr. spenlow, together with a shake of the hand, and a polite wish for his happiness and the ladys, went out of the office.

i might have had more difficulty in constraining myself to be silent under his words, if i had had less difficulty in impressing upon peggotty who was only angry on my account, good creature that we were not in a place for recrimination, and that i besought her to hold her peace. she was so unusually roused, that i was glad to compound for an affectionate hug, elicited by this revival in her mind of our old injuries, and to make the best i could of it, before mr. spenlow and the clerks.

mr. spenlow did not appear to know what the connexion between mr.

murdstone and myself was which i was glad of, for i could not bear to acknowledge him, even in my own breast, remembering what i did of the history of my poor mother. mr. spenlow seemed to think, if he thought anything about the matter, that my aunt was the leader of the state party in our family, and that there was a rebel party commanded by somebody else  so i gathered at least from what he said, while we were waiting for mr. tiffey to make out peggottys bill of costs.

miss trotwood, he remarked, is very firm, no doubt, and not likely to give way to opposition. i have an admiration for her character, and i may congratulate you, copperfield, on being on the right side. differences between relations are much to be deplored  but they are extremely general  and the great thing is, to be on the right side meaning, i take it, on the side of the moneyed interest.

rather a good marriage this, i believe said mr. spenlow.

i explained that i knew nothing about it.

indeed he said. speaking from the few words mr. murdstone dropped  as a man frequently does on these occasions  and from what miss murdstone let fall, i should say it was rather a good marriage.

do you mean that there is money, sir i asked.

yes, said mr. spenlow, i understand theres money. beauty too, i am told.

indeed is his new wife young

just of age, said mr. spenlow. so lately, that i should think they had been waiting for that.

lord deliver her said peggotty. so very emphatically and unexpectedly, that we were all three discomposed until tiffey came in with the bill.

old tiffey soon appeared, however, and handed it to mr. spenlow, to look over. mr. spenlow, settling his chin in his cravat and rubbing it softly, went over the items with a deprecatory air  as if it were all jorkinss doing  and handed it back to tiffey with a bland sigh.

yes, he said. thats right. quite right. i should have been extremely happy, copperfield, to have limited these charges to the actual expenditure out of pocket, but it is an irksome incident in my professional life, that i am not at liberty to consult my own wishes. i have a partner  mr. jorkins.

as he said this with a gentle melancholy, which was the next thing to making no charge at all, i expressed my acknowledgements on peggottys behalf, and paid tiffey in banknotes. peggotty then retired to her lodging, and mr. spenlow and i went into court, where we had a divorcesuit coming on, under an ingenious little statute repealed now, i believe, but in virtue of which i have seen several marriages annulled, of which the merits were these.

the husband, whose name was thomas benjamin, had taken out his marriage licence as thomas only suppressing the benjamin, in case he should not find himself as comfortable as he expected. not finding himself as comfortable as he expected, or being a little fatigued with his wife, poor fellow, he now came forward, by a friend, after being married a year or two, and declared that his name was thomas benjamin, and therefore he was not married at all.

which the court confirmed, to his great satisfaction.

i must say that i had my doubts about the strict justice of this, and was not even frightened out of them by the bushel of wheat which reconciles all anomalies. but mr. spenlow argued the matter with me. he said, look at the world, there was good and evil in that look at the ecclesiastical law, there was good and evil in that. it was all part of a system. very good. there you were

i had not the hardihood to suggest to doras father that possibly we might even improve the world a little, if we got up early in the morning, and took off our coats to the work but i confessed that i thought we might improve the commons. mr. spenlow replied that he would particularly advise me to dismiss that idea from my mind, as not being worthy of my gentlemanly character but that he would be glad to hear from me of what improvement i thought the commons susceptible

taking that part of the commons which happened to be nearest to us  for our man was unmarried by this time, and we were out of court, and strolling past the prerogative office  i submitted that i thought the prerogative office rather a queerly managed institution. mr. spenlow inquired in what respect i replied, with all due deference to his experience but with more deference, i am afraid, to his being doras father, that perhaps it was a little nonsensical that the registry of that court, containing the original wills of all persons leaving effects within the immense province of canterbury, for three whole centuries, should be an accidental building, never designed for the purpose, leased by the registrars for their own private emolument, unsafe, not even ascertained to be fireproof, choked with the important documents it held, and positively, from the roof to the basement, a mercenary speculation of the registrars, who took great fees from the public, and crammed the publics wills away anyhow and anywhere, having no other object than to get rid of them cheaply. that, perhaps, it was a little unreasonable that these registrars in the receipt of profits amounting to eight or nine thousand pounds a year to say nothing of the profits of the deputy registrars, and clerks of seats, should not be obliged to spend a little of that money, in finding a reasonably safe place for the important documents which all classes of people were compelled to hand over to them, whether they would or no. that, perhaps, it was a little unjust, that all the great offices in this great office should be magnificent sinecures, while the unfortunate workingclerks in the cold dark room upstairs were the worst rewarded, and the least considered men, doing important services, in london. that perhaps it was a little indecent that the principal registrar of all, whose duty it was to find the public, constantly resorting to this place, all needful accommodation, should be an enormous sinecurist in virtue of that post and might be, besides, a clergyman, a pluralist, the holder of a staff in a cathedral, and what not,  while the public was put to the inconvenience of which we had a specimen every afternoon when the office was busy, and which we knew to be quite monstrous. that, perhaps, in short, this prerogative office of the diocese of canterbury was altogether such a pestilent job, and such a pernicious absurdity, that but for its being squeezed away in a corner of st. pauls churchyard, which few people knew, it must have been turned completely inside out, and upside down, long ago.

mr. spenlow smiled as i became modestly warm on the subject, and then argued this question with me as he had argued the other. he said, what was it after all it was a question of feeling. if the public felt that their wills were in safe keeping, and took it for granted that the office was not to be made better, who was the worse for it nobody. who was the better for it all the sinecurists. very well. then the good predominated. it might not be a perfect system nothing was perfect but what he objected to, was, the insertion of the wedge. under the prerogative office, the country had been glorious. insert the wedge into the prerogative office, and the country would cease to be glorious. he considered it the principle of a gentleman to take things as he found them and he had no doubt the prerogative office would last our time. i deferred to his opinion, though i had great doubts of it myself.

i find he was right, however for it has not only lasted to the present moment, but has done so in the teeth of a great parliamentary report made not too willingly eighteen years ago, when all these objections of mine were set forth in detail, and when the existing stowage for wills was described as equal to the accumulation of only two years and a half more. what they have done with them since whether they have lost many, or whether they sell any, now and then, to the butter shops i dont know. i am glad mine is not there, and i hope it may not go there, yet awhile.

i have set all this down, in my present blissful chapter, because here it comes into its natural place. mr. spenlow and i falling into this conversation, prolonged it and our saunter to and fro, until we diverged into general topics. and so it came about, in the end, that mr. spenlow told me this day week was doras birthday, and he would be glad if i would come down and join a little picnic on the occasion. i went out of my senses immediately became a mere driveller next day, on receipt of a little laceedged sheet of notepaper, favoured by papa. to remind and passed the intervening period in a state of dotage.

i think i committed every possible absurdity in the way of preparation for this blessed event. i turn hot when i remember the cravat i bought. my boots might be placed in any collection of instruments of torture. i provided, and sent down by the norwood coach the night before, a delicate little hamper, amounting in itself, i thought, almost to a declaration. there were crackers in it with the tenderest mottoes that could be got for money. at six in the morning, i was in covent garden market, buying a bouquet for dora. at ten i was on horseback i hired a gallant grey, for the occasion, with the bouquet in my hat, to keep it fresh, trotting down to norwood.

i suppose that when i saw dora in the garden and pretended not to see her, and rode past the house pretending to be anxiously looking for it, i committed two small fooleries which other young gentlemen in my circumstances might have committed  because they came so very natural to me. but oh when i did find the house, and did dismount at the gardengate, and drag those stonyhearted boots across the lawn to dora sitting on a gardenseat under a lilac tree, what a spectacle she was, upon that beautiful morning, among the butterflies, in a white chip bonnet and a dress of celestial blue there was a young lady with her  comparatively stricken in years  almost twenty, i should say. her name was miss mills. and dora called her julia. she was the bosom friend of dora. happy miss mills

jip was there, and jip would bark at me again. when i presented my bouquet, he gnashed his teeth with jealousy. well he might. if he had the least idea how i adored his mistress, well he might oh, thank you, mr. copperfield what dear flowers said dora.

i had had an intention of saying and had been studying the best form of words for three miles that i thought them beautiful before i saw them so near her. but i couldnt manage it. she was too bewildering. to see her lay the flowers against her little dimpled chin, was to lose all presence of mind and power of language in a feeble ecstasy. i wonder i didnt say, kill me, if you have a heart, miss mills. let me die here

then dora held my flowers to jip to smell. then jip growled, and wouldnt smell them. then dora laughed, and held them a little closer to jip, to make him. then jip laid hold of a bit of geranium with his teeth, and worried imaginary cats in it. then dora beat him, and pouted, and said, my poor beautiful flowers as compassionately, i thought, as if jip had laid hold of me. i wished he had youll be so glad to hear, mr. copperfield, said dora, that that cross miss murdstone is not here. she has gone to her brothers marriage, and will be away at least three weeks. isnt that delightful

i said i was sure it must be delightful to her, and all that was delightful to her was delightful to me. miss mills, with an air of superior wisdom and benevolence, smiled upon us.

she is the most disagreeable thing i ever saw, said dora. you cant believe how illtempered and shocking she is, julia.

yes, i can, my dear said julia.

you can, perhaps, love, returned dora, with her hand on julias.

forgive my not excepting you, my dear, at first.

i learnt, from this, that miss mills had had her trials in the course of a chequered existence and that to these, perhaps, i might refer that wise benignity of manner which i had already noticed. i found, in the course of the day, that this was the case miss mills having been unhappy in a misplaced affection, and being understood to have retired from the world on her awful stock of experience, but still to take a calm interest in the unblighted hopes and loves of youth.

but now mr. spenlow came out of the house, and dora went to him, saying, look, papa, what beautiful flowers and miss mills smiled thoughtfully, as who should say, ye mayflies, enjoy your brief existence in the bright morning of life and we all walked from the lawn towards the carriage, which was getting ready.

i shall never have such a ride again. i have never had such another. there were only those three, their hamper, my hamper, and the guitarcase, in the phaeton and, of course, the phaeton was open and i rode behind it, and dora sat with her back to the horses, looking towards me. she kept the bouquet close to her on the cushion, and wouldnt allow jip to sit on that side of her at all, for fear he should crush it. she often carried it in her hand, often refreshed herself with its fragrance. our eyes at those times often met and my great astonishment is that i didnt go over the head of my gallant grey into the carriage.

there was dust, i believe. there was a good deal of dust, i believe. i have a faint impression that mr. spenlow remonstrated with me for riding in it but i knew of none. i was sensible of a mist of love and beauty about dora, but of nothing else. he stood up sometimes, and asked me what i thought of the prospect. i said it was delightful, and i dare say it was but it was all dora to me. the sun shone dora, and the birds sang dora. the south wind blew dora, and the wild flowers in the hedges were all doras, to a bud. my comfort is, miss mills understood me. miss mills alone could enter into my feelings thoroughly.

i dont know how long we were going, and to this hour i know as little where we went. perhaps it was near guildford. perhaps some arabiannight magician, opened up the place for the day, and shut it up for ever when we came away. it was a green spot, on a hill, carpeted with soft turf. there were shady trees, and heather, and, as far as the eye could see, a rich landscape.

it was a trying thing to find people here, waiting for us and my jealousy, even of the ladies, knew no bounds. but all of my own sex  especially one impostor, three or four years my elder, with a red whisker, on which he established an amount of presumption not to be endured  were my mortal foes.

we all unpacked our baskets, and employed ourselves in getting dinner ready. red whisker pretended he could make a salad which i dont believe, and obtruded himself on public notice. some of the young ladies washed the lettuces for him, and sliced them under his directions. dora was among these. i felt that fate had pitted me against this man, and one of us must fall.

red whisker made his salad i wondered how they could eat it.

nothing should have induced me to touch it and voted himself into the charge of the winecellar, which he constructed, being an ingenious beast, in the hollow trunk of a tree. by and by, i saw him, with the majority of a lobster on his plate, eating his dinner at the feet of dora

i have but an indistinct idea of what happened for some time after this baleful object presented itself to my view. i was very merry, i know but it was hollow merriment. i attached myself to a young creature in pink, with little eyes, and flirted with her desperately. she received my attentions with favour but whether on my account solely, or because she had any designs on red whisker, i cant say. doras health was drunk. when i drank it, i affected to interrupt my conversation for that purpose, and to resume it immediately afterwards. i caught doras eye as i bowed to her, and i thought it looked appealing. but it looked at me over the head of red whisker, and i was adamant.

the young creature in pink had a mother in green and i rather think the latter separated us from motives of policy. howbeit, there was a general breaking up of the party, while the remnants of the dinner were being put away and i strolled off by myself among the trees, in a raging and remorseful state. i was debating whether i should pretend that i was not well, and fly  i dont know where  upon my gallant grey, when dora and miss mills met me.

mr. copperfield, said miss mills, you are dull.

i begged her pardon. not at all.

and dora, said miss mills, you are dull.

oh dear no not in the least.

mr. copperfield and dora, said miss mills, with an almost venerable air. enough of this. do not allow a trivial misunderstanding to wither the blossoms of spring, which, once put forth and blighted, cannot be renewed. i speak, said miss mills, from experience of the past  the remote, irrevocable past. the gushing fountains which sparkle in the sun, must not be stopped in mere caprice the oasis in the desert of sahara must not be plucked up idly.

i hardly knew what i did, i was burning all over to that extraordinary extent but i took doras little hand and kissed it  and she let me i kissed miss millss hand and we all seemed, to my thinking, to go straight up to the seventh heaven.

we did not come down again. we stayed up there all the evening.

at first we strayed to and fro among the trees i with doras shy arm drawn through mine and heaven knows, folly as it all was, it would have been a happy fate to have been struck immortal with those foolish feelings, and have stayed among the trees for ever

but, much too soon, we heard the others laughing and talking, and calling wheres dora so we went back, and they wanted dora to sing. red whisker would have got the guitarcase out of the carriage, but dora told him nobody knew where it was, but i. so red whisker was done for in a moment and i got it, and i unlocked it, and i took the guitar out, and i sat by her, and i held her handkerchief and gloves, and i drank in every note of her dear voice, and she sang to me who loved her, and all the others might applaud as much as they liked, but they had nothing to do with it

i was intoxicated with joy. i was afraid it was too happy to be real, and that i should wake in buckingham street presently, and hear mrs. crupp clinking the teacups in getting breakfast ready.

but dora sang, and others sang, and miss mills sang  about the slumbering echoes in the caverns of memory as if she were a hundred years old  and the evening came on and we had tea, with the kettle boiling gipsyfashion and i was still as happy as ever.

i was happier than ever when the party broke up, and the other people, defeated red whisker and all, went their several ways, and we went ours through the still evening and the dying light, with sweet scents rising up around us. mr. spenlow being a little drowsy after the champagne  honour to the soil that grew the grape, to the grape that made the wine, to the sun that ripened it, and to the merchant who adulterated it  and being fast asleep in a corner of the carriage, i rode by the side and talked to dora.

she admired my horse and patted him  oh, what a dear little hand it looked upon a horse  and her shawl would not keep right, and now and then i drew it round her with my arm and i even fancied that jip began to see how it was, and to understand that he must make up his mind to be friends with me.

that sagacious miss mills, too that amiable, though quite used up, recluse that little patriarch of something less than twenty, who had done with the world, and mustnt on any account have the slumbering echoes in the caverns of memory awakened what a kind thing she did mr. copperfield, said miss mills, come to this side of the carriage a moment  if you can spare a moment. i want to speak to you.

behold me, on my gallant grey, bending at the side of miss mills, with my hand upon the carriage door dora is coming to stay with me. she is coming home with me the day after tomorrow. if you would like to call, i am sure papa would be happy to see you.

what could i do but invoke a silent blessing on miss millss head, and store miss millss address in the securest corner of my memory

what could i do but tell miss mills, with grateful looks and fervent words, how much i appreciated her good offices, and what an inestimable value i set upon her friendship

then miss mills benignantly dismissed me, saying, go back to dora and i went and dora leaned out of the carriage to talk to me, and we talked all the rest of the way and i rode my gallant grey so close to the wheel that i grazed his near fore leg against it, and took the bark off, as his owner told me, to the tune of three pun sivin  which i paid, and thought extremely cheap for so much joy. what time miss mills sat looking at the moon, murmuring verses and recalling, i suppose, the ancient days when she and earth had anything in common.

norwood was many miles too near, and we reached it many hours too soon but mr. spenlow came to himself a little short of it, and said, you must come in, copperfield, and rest and i consenting, we had sandwiches and wineandwater. in the light room, dora blushing looked so lovely, that i could not tear myself away, but sat there staring, in a dream, until the snoring of mr. spenlow inspired me with sufficient consciousness to take my leave. so we parted i riding all the way to london with the farewell touch of doras hand still light on mine, recalling every incident and word ten thousand times lying down in my own bed at last, as enraptured a young noodle as ever was carried out of his five wits by love.

when i awoke next morning, i was resolute to declare my passion to dora, and know my fate. happiness or misery was now the question.

there was no other question that i knew of in the world, and only dora could give the answer to it. i passed three days in a luxury of wretchedness, torturing myself by putting every conceivable variety of discouraging construction on all that ever had taken place between dora and me. at last, arrayed for the purpose at a vast expense, i went to miss millss, fraught with a declaration.

how many times i went up and down the street, and round the square  painfully aware of being a much better answer to the old riddle than the original one  before i could persuade myself to go up the steps and knock, is no matter now. even when, at last, i had knocked, and was waiting at the door, i had some flurried thought of asking if that were mr. blackboys in imitation of poor barkis, begging pardon, and retreating. but i kept my ground.

mr. mills was not at home. i did not expect he would be. nobody wanted him. miss mills was at home. miss mills would do.

i was shown into a room upstairs, where miss mills and dora were.

jip was there. miss mills was copying music i recollect, it was a new song, called affections dirge, and dora was painting flowers. what were my feelings, when i recognized my own flowers the identical covent garden market purchase i cannot say that they were very like, or that they particularly resembled any flowers that have ever come under my observation but i knew from the paper round them which was accurately copied, what the composition was.

miss mills was very glad to see me, and very sorry her papa was not at home though i thought we all bore that with fortitude. miss mills was conversational for a few minutes, and then, laying down her pen upon affections dirge, got up, and left the room.

i began to think i would put it off till tomorrow.

i hope your poor horse was not tired, when he got home at night, said dora, lifting up her beautiful eyes. it was a long way for him.

i began to think i would do it today.

it was a long way for him, said i, for he had nothing to uphold him on the journey.

wasnt he fed, poor thing asked dora.

i began to think i would put it off till tomorrow.

yeyes, i said, he was well taken care of. i mean he had not the unutterable happiness that i had in being so near you.

dora bent her head over her drawing and said, after a little while  i had sat, in the interval, in a burning fever, and with my legs in a very rigid state  you didnt seem to be sensible of that happiness yourself, at one time of the day.

i saw now that i was in for it, and it must be done on the spot.

you didnt care for that happiness in the least, said dora, slightly raising her eyebrows, and shaking her head, when you were sitting by miss kitt.

kitt, i should observe, was the name of the creature in pink, with the little eyes.

though certainly i dont know why you should, said dora, or why you should call it a happiness at all. but of course you dont mean what you say. and i am sure no one doubts your being at liberty to do whatever you like. jip, you naughty boy, come here

i dont know how i did it. i did it in a moment. i intercepted jip. i had dora in my arms. i was full of eloquence. i never stopped for a word. i told her how i loved her. i told her i should die without her. i told her that i idolized and worshipped her. jip barked madly all the time.

when dora hung her head and cried, and trembled, my eloquence increased so much the more. if she would like me to die for her, she had but to say the word, and i was ready. life without doras love was not a thing to have on any terms. i couldnt bear it, and i wouldnt. i had loved her every minute, day and night, since i first saw her. i loved her at that minute to distraction. i should always love her, every minute, to distraction. lovers had loved before, and lovers would love again but no lover had loved, might, could, would, or should ever love, as i loved dora. the more i raved, the more jip barked. each of us, in his own way, got more mad every moment.

well, well dora and i were sitting on the sofa by and by, quiet enough, and jip was lying in her lap, winking peacefully at me. it was off my mind. i was in a state of perfect rapture. dora and i were engaged.

i suppose we had some notion that this was to end in marriage. we must have had some, because dora stipulated that we were never to be married without her papas consent. but, in our youthful ecstasy, i dont think that we really looked before us or behind us or had any aspiration beyond the ignorant present. we were to keep our secret from mr. spenlow but i am sure the idea never entered my head, then, that there was anything dishonourable in that.

miss mills was more than usually pensive when dora, going to find her, brought her back  i apprehend, because there was a tendency in what had passed to awaken the slumbering echoes in the caverns of memory. but she gave us her blessing, and the assurance of her lasting friendship, and spoke to us, generally, as became a voice from the cloister.

what an idle time it was what an insubstantial, happy, foolish time it was

when i measured doras finger for a ring that was to be made of forgetmenots, and when the jeweller, to whom i took the measure, found me out, and laughed over his orderbook, and charged me anything he liked for the pretty little toy, with its blue stones  so associated in my remembrance with doras hand, that yesterday, when i saw such another, by chance, on the finger of my own daughter, there was a momentary stirring in my heart, like pain

when i walked about, exalted with my secret, and full of my own interest, and felt the dignity of loving dora, and of being beloved, so much, that if i had walked the air, i could not have been more above the people not so situated, who were creeping on the earth

when we had those meetings in the garden of the square, and sat within the dingy summerhouse, so happy, that i love the london sparrows to this hour, for nothing else, and see the plumage of the tropics in their smoky feathers

when we had our first great quarrel within a week of our betrothal, and when dora sent me back the ring, enclosed in a despairing cockedhat note, wherein she used the terrible expression that our love had begun in folly, and ended in madness which dreadful words occasioned me to tear my hair, and cry that all was over

when, under cover of the night, i flew to miss mills, whom i saw by stealth in a back kitchen where there was a mangle, and implored miss mills to interpose between us and avert insanity. when miss mills undertook the office and returned with dora, exhorting us, from the pulpit of her own bitter youth, to mutual concession, and the avoidance of the desert of sahara

when we cried, and made it up, and were so blest again, that the back kitchen, mangle and all, changed to loves own temple, where we arranged a plan of correspondence through miss mills, always to comprehend at least one letter on each side every day

what an idle time what an insubstantial, happy, foolish time of all the times of mine that time has in his grip, there is none that in one retrospect i can smile at half so much, and think of half so tenderly.



chapter 

my aunt astonishes me

i wrote to agnes as soon as dora and i were engaged. i wrote her a long letter, in which i tried to make her comprehend how blest i was, and what a darling dora was. i entreated agnes not to regard this as a thoughtless passion which could ever yield to any other, or had the least resemblance to the boyish fancies that we used to joke about. i assured her that its profundity was quite unfathomable, and expressed my belief that nothing like it had ever been known.

somehow, as i wrote to agnes on a fine evening by my open window, and the remembrance of her clear calm eyes and gentle face came stealing over me, it shed such a peaceful influence upon the hurry and agitation in which i had been living lately, and of which my very happiness partook in some degree, that it soothed me into tears. i remember that i sat resting my head upon my hand, when the letter was half done, cherishing a general fancy as if agnes were one of the elements of my natural home. as if, in the retirement of the house made almost sacred to me by her presence, dora and i must be happier than anywhere. as if, in love, joy, sorrow, hope, or disappointment in all emotions my heart turned naturally there, and found its refuge and best friend.

of steerforth i said nothing. i only told her there had been sad grief at yarmouth, on account of emilys flight and that on me it made a double wound, by reason of the circumstances attending it.

i knew how quick she always was to divine the truth, and that she would never be the first to breathe his name.

to this letter, i received an answer by return of post. as i read it, i seemed to hear agnes speaking to me. it was like her cordial voice in my ears. what can i say more

while i had been away from home lately, traddles had called twice or thrice. finding peggotty within, and being informed by peggotty who always volunteered that information to whomsoever would receive it, that she was my old nurse, he had established a goodhumoured acquaintance with her, and had stayed to have a little chat with her about me. so peggotty said but i am afraid the chat was all on her own side, and of immoderate length, as she was very difficult indeed to stop, god bless her when she had me for her theme.

this reminds me, not only that i expected traddles on a certain afternoon of his own appointing, which was now come, but that mrs.

crupp had resigned everything appertaining to her office the salary excepted until peggotty should cease to present herself.

mrs. crupp, after holding divers conversations respecting peggotty, in a very highpitched voice, on the staircase  with some invisible familiar it would appear, for corporeally speaking she was quite alone at those times  addressed a letter to me, developing her views. beginning it with that statement of universal application, which fitted every occurrence of her life, namely, that she was a mother herself, she went on to inform me that she had once seen very different days, but that at all periods of her existence she had had a constitutional objection to spies, intruders, and informers. she named no names, she said let them the cap fitted, wear it but spies, intruders, and informers, especially in widders weeds this clause was underlined, she had ever accustomed herself to look down upon. if a gentleman was the victim of spies, intruders, and informers but still naming no names, that was his own pleasure. he had a right to please himself so let him do. all that she, mrs. crupp, stipulated for, was, that she should not be brought in contract with such persons. therefore she begged to be excused from any further attendance on the top set, until things were as they formerly was, and as they could be wished to be and further mentioned that her little book would be found upon the breakfasttable every saturday morning, when she requested an immediate settlement of the same, with the benevolent view of saving trouble and an illconwenience to all parties.

after this, mrs. crupp confined herself to making pitfalls on the stairs, principally with pitchers, and endeavouring to delude peggotty into breaking her legs. i found it rather harassing to live in this state of siege, but was too much afraid of mrs. crupp to see any way out of it.

my dear copperfield, cried traddles, punctually appearing at my door, in spite of all these obstacles, how do you do

my dear traddles, said i, i am delighted to see you at last, and very sorry i have not been at home before. but i have been so much engaged 

yes, yes, i know, said traddles, of course. yours lives in london, i think.

what did you say

she  excuse me  miss d., you know, said traddles, colouring in his great delicacy, lives in london, i believe

oh yes. near london.

mine, perhaps you recollect, said traddles, with a serious look, lives down in devonshire  one of ten. consequently, i am not so much engaged as you  in that sense.

i wonder you can bear, i returned, to see her so seldom.

hah said traddles, thoughtfully. it does seem a wonder. i suppose it is, copperfield, because there is no help for it

i suppose so, i replied with a smile, and not without a blush.

and because you have so much constancy and patience, traddles.

dear me said traddles, considering about it, do i strike you in that way, copperfield really i didnt know that i had. but she is such an extraordinarily dear girl herself, that its possible she may have imparted something of those virtues to me. now you mention it, copperfield, i shouldnt wonder at all. i assure you she is always forgetting herself, and taking care of the other nine.

is she the eldest i inquired.

oh dear, no, said traddles. the eldest is a beauty.

he saw, i suppose, that i could not help smiling at the simplicity of this reply and added, with a smile upon his own ingenuous face not, of course, but that my sophy  pretty name, copperfield, i always think

very pretty said i.

not, of course, but that sophy is beautiful too in my eyes, and would be one of the dearest girls that ever was, in anybodys eyes i should think. but when i say the eldest is a beauty, i mean she really is a  he seemed to be describing clouds about himself, with both hands splendid, you know, said traddles, energetically.

indeed said i.

oh, i assure you, said traddles, something very uncommon, indeed then, you know, being formed for society and admiration, and not being able to enjoy much of it in consequence of their limited means, she naturally gets a little irritable and exacting, sometimes. sophy puts her in good humour

is sophy the youngest i hazarded.

oh dear, no said traddles, stroking his chin. the two youngest are only nine and ten. sophy educates em.

the second daughter, perhaps i hazarded.

no, said traddles. sarahs the second. sarah has something the matter with her spine, poor girl. the malady will wear out by and by, the doctors say, but in the meantime she has to lie down for a twelvemonth. sophy nurses her. sophys the fourth.

is the mother living i inquired.

oh yes, said traddles, she is alive. she is a very superior woman indeed, but the damp country is not adapted to her constitution, and  in fact, she has lost the use of her limbs.

dear me said i.

very sad, is it not returned traddles. but in a merely domestic view it is not so bad as it might be, because sophy takes her place. she is quite as much a mother to her mother, as she is to the other nine.

i felt the greatest admiration for the virtues of this young lady and, honestly with the view of doing my best to prevent the goodnature of traddles from being imposed upon, to the detriment of their joint prospects in life, inquired how mr. micawber was he is quite well, copperfield, thank you, said traddles. i am not living with him at present.

no

no. you see the truth is, said traddles, in a whisper, he had changed his name to mortimer, in consequence of his temporary embarrassments and he dont come out till after dark  and then in spectacles. there was an execution put into our house, for rent.

mrs. micawber was in such a dreadful state that i really couldnt resist giving my name to that second bill we spoke of here. you may imagine how delightful it was to my feelings, copperfield, to see the matter settled with it, and mrs. micawber recover her spirits.

hum said i.

not that her happiness was of long duration, pursued traddles, for, unfortunately, within a week another execution came in. it broke up the establishment. i have been living in a furnished apartment since then, and the mortimers have been very private indeed. i hope you wont think it selfish, copperfield, if i mention that the broker carried off my little round table with the marble top, and sophys flowerpot and stand

what a hard thing i exclaimed indignantly.

it was a  it was a pull, said traddles, with his usual wince at that expression. i dont mention it reproachfully, however, but with a motive. the fact is, copperfield, i was unable to repurchase them at the time of their seizure in the first place, because the broker, having an idea that i wanted them, ran the price up to an extravagant extent and, in the second place, because i  hadnt any money. now, i have kept my eye since, upon the brokers shop, said traddles, with a great enjoyment of his mystery, which is up at the top of tottenham court road, and, at last, today i find them put out for sale. i have only noticed them from over the way, because if the broker saw me, bless you, hed ask any price for them what has occurred to me, having now the money, is, that perhaps you wouldnt object to ask that good nurse of yours to come with me to the shop  i can show it her from round the corner of the next street  and make the best bargain for them, as if they were for herself, that she can

the delight with which traddles propounded this plan to me, and the sense he had of its uncommon artfulness, are among the freshest things in my remembrance.

i told him that my old nurse would be delighted to assist him, and that we would all three take the field together, but on one condition. that condition was, that he should make a solemn resolution to grant no more loans of his name, or anything else, to mr. micawber.

my dear copperfield, said traddles, i have already done so, because i begin to feel that i have not only been inconsiderate, but that i have been positively unjust to sophy. my word being passed to myself, there is no longer any apprehension but i pledge it to you, too, with the greatest readiness. that first unlucky obligation, i have paid. i have no doubt mr. micawber would have paid it if he could, but he could not. one thing i ought to mention, which i like very much in mr. micawber, copperfield. it refers to the second obligation, which is not yet due. he dont tell me that it is provided for, but he says it will be. now, i think there is something very fair and honest about that

i was unwilling to damp my good friends confidence, and therefore assented. after a little further conversation, we went round to the chandlers shop, to enlist peggotty traddles declining to pass the evening with me, both because he endured the liveliest apprehensions that his property would be bought by somebody else before he could repurchase it, and because it was the evening he always devoted to writing to the dearest girl in the world.

i never shall forget him peeping round the corner of the street in tottenham court road, while peggotty was bargaining for the precious articles or his agitation when she came slowly towards us after vainly offering a price, and was hailed by the relenting broker, and went back again. the end of the negotiation was, that she bought the property on tolerably easy terms, and traddles was transported with pleasure.

i am very much obliged to you, indeed, said traddles, on hearing it was to be sent to where he lived, that night. if i might ask one other favour, i hope you would not think it absurd, copperfield

i said beforehand, certainly not.

then if you would be good enough, said traddles to peggotty, to get the flowerpot now, i think i should like it being sophys, copperfield to carry it home myself

peggotty was glad to get it for him, and he overwhelmed her with thanks, and went his way up tottenham court road, carrying the flowerpot affectionately in his arms, with one of the most delighted expressions of countenance i ever saw.

we then turned back towards my chambers. as the shops had charms for peggotty which i never knew them possess in the same degree for anybody else, i sauntered easily along, amused by her staring in at the windows, and waiting for her as often as she chose. we were thus a good while in getting to the adelphi.

on our way upstairs, i called her attention to the sudden disappearance of mrs. crupps pitfalls, and also to the prints of recent footsteps. we were both very much surprised, coming higher up, to find my outer door standing open which i had shut and to hear voices inside.

we looked at one another, without knowing what to make of this, and went into the sittingroom. what was my amazement to find, of all people upon earth, my aunt there, and mr. dick my aunt sitting on a quantity of luggage, with her two birds before her, and her cat on her knee, like a female robinson crusoe, drinking tea. mr. dick leaning thoughtfully on a great kite, such as we had often been out together to fly, with more luggage piled about him my dear aunt cried i. why, what an unexpected pleasure

we cordially embraced and mr. dick and i cordially shook hands and mrs. crupp, who was busy making tea, and could not be too attentive, cordially said she had knowed well as mr. copperfull would have his heart in his mouth, when he see his dear relations.

holloa said my aunt to peggotty, who quailed before her awful presence. how are you

you remember my aunt, peggotty said i.

for the love of goodness, child, exclaimed my aunt, dont call the woman by that south sea island name if she married and got rid of it, which was the best thing she could do, why dont you give her the benefit of the change whats your name now,  p said my aunt, as a compromise for the obnoxious appellation.

barkis, maam, said peggotty, with a curtsey.

well thats human, said my aunt. it sounds less as if you wanted a missionary. how dye do, barkis i hope youre well

encouraged by these gracious words, and by my aunts extending her hand, barkis came forward, and took the hand, and curtseyed her acknowledgements.

we are older than we were, i see, said my aunt. we have only met each other once before, you know. a nice business we made of it then trot, my dear, another cup.

i handed it dutifully to my aunt, who was in her usual inflexible state of figure and ventured a remonstrance with her on the subject of her sitting on a box.

let me draw the sofa here, or the easychair, aunt, said i. why should you be so uncomfortable

thank you, trot, replied my aunt, i prefer to sit upon my property. here my aunt looked hard at mrs. crupp, and observed, we neednt trouble you to wait, maam.

shall i put a little more tea in the pot afore i go, maam said mrs. crupp.

no, i thank you, maam, replied my aunt.

would you let me fetch another pat of butter, maam said mrs.

crupp. or would you be persuaded to try a newlaid hegg or should i brile a rasher aint there nothing i could do for your dear aunt, mr. copperfull

nothing, maam, returned my aunt. i shall do very well, i thank you.

mrs. crupp, who had been incessantly smiling to express sweet temper, and incessantly holding her head on one side, to express a general feebleness of constitution, and incessantly rubbing her hands, to express a desire to be of service to all deserving objects, gradually smiled herself, onesided herself, and rubbed herself, out of the room.

dick said my aunt. you know what i told you about timeservers and wealthworshippers

mr. dick  with rather a scared look, as if he had forgotten it  returned a hasty answer in the affirmative.

mrs. crupp is one of them, said my aunt. barkis, ill trouble you to look after the tea, and let me have another cup, for i dont fancy that womans pouringout

i knew my aunt sufficiently well to know that she had something of importance on her mind, and that there was far more matter in this arrival than a stranger might have supposed. i noticed how her eye lighted on me, when she thought my attention otherwise occupied and what a curious process of hesitation appeared to be going on within her, while she preserved her outward stiffness and composure. i began to reflect whether i had done anything to offend her and my conscience whispered me that i had not yet told her about dora. could it by any means be that, i wondered

as i knew she would only speak in her own good time, i sat down near her, and spoke to the birds, and played with the cat, and was as easy as i could be. but i was very far from being really easy and i should still have been so, even if mr. dick, leaning over the great kite behind my aunt, had not taken every secret opportunity of shaking his head darkly at me, and pointing at her.

trot, said my aunt at last, when she had finished her tea, and carefully smoothed down her dress, and wiped her lips  you neednt go, barkis  trot, have you got to be firm and selfreliant

i hope so, aunt.

what do you think inquired miss betsey.

i think so, aunt.

then why, my love, said my aunt, looking earnestly at me, why do you think i prefer to sit upon this property of mine tonight

i shook my head, unable to guess.

because, said my aunt, its all i have. because im ruined, my dear

if the house, and every one of us, had tumbled out into the river together, i could hardly have received a greater shock.

dick knows it, said my aunt, laying her hand calmly on my shoulder. i am ruined, my dear trot all i have in the world is in this room, except the cottage and that i have left janet to let. barkis, i want to get a bed for this gentleman tonight. to save expense, perhaps you can make up something here for myself.

anything will do. its only for tonight. well talk about this, more, tomorrow.

i was roused from my amazement, and concern for her  i am sure, for her  by her falling on my neck, for a moment, and crying that she only grieved for me. in another moment she suppressed this emotion and said with an aspect more triumphant than dejected we must meet reverses boldly, and not suffer them to frighten us, my dear. we must learn to act the play out. we must live misfortune down, trot



chapter 

depression

as soon as i could recover my presence of mind, which quite deserted me in the first overpowering shock of my aunts intelligence, i proposed to mr. dick to come round to the chandlers shop, and take possession of the bed which mr. peggotty had lately vacated. the chandlers shop being in hungerford market, and hungerford market being a very different place in those days, there was a low wooden colonnade before the door not very unlike that before the house where the little man and woman used to live, in the old weatherglass, which pleased mr. dick mightily.

the glory of lodging over this structure would have compensated him, i dare say, for many inconveniences but, as there were really few to bear, beyond the compound of flavours i have already mentioned, and perhaps the want of a little more elbowroom, he was perfectly charmed with his accommodation. mrs. crupp had indignantly assured him that there wasnt room to swing a cat there but, as mr. dick justly observed to me, sitting down on the foot of the bed, nursing his leg, you know, trotwood, i dont want to swing a cat. i never do swing a cat. therefore, what does that signify to me

i tried to ascertain whether mr. dick had any understanding of the causes of this sudden and great change in my aunts affairs. as i might have expected, he had none at all. the only account he could give of it was, that my aunt had said to him, the day before yesterday, now, dick, are you really and truly the philosopher i take you for that then he had said, yes, he hoped so. that then my aunt had said, dick, i am ruined. that then he had said, oh, indeed that then my aunt had praised him highly, which he was glad of. and that then they had come to me, and had had bottled porter and sandwiches on the road.

mr. dick was so very complacent, sitting on the foot of the bed, nursing his leg, and telling me this, with his eyes wide open and a surprised smile, that i am sorry to say i was provoked into explaining to him that ruin meant distress, want, and starvation but i was soon bitterly reproved for this harshness, by seeing his face turn pale, and tears course down his lengthened cheeks, while he fixed upon me a look of such unutterable woe, that it might have softened a far harder heart than mine. i took infinitely greater pains to cheer him up again than i had taken to depress him and i soon understood as i ought to have known at first that he had been so confident, merely because of his faith in the wisest and most wonderful of women, and his unbounded reliance on my intellectual resources. the latter, i believe, he considered a match for any kind of disaster not absolutely mortal.

what can we do, trotwood said mr. dick. theres the memorial 

to be sure there is, said i. but all we can do just now, mr.

dick, is to keep a cheerful countenance, and not let my aunt see that we are thinking about it.

he assented to this in the most earnest manner and implored me, if i should see him wandering an inch out of the right course, to recall him by some of those superior methods which were always at my command. but i regret to state that the fright i had given him proved too much for his best attempts at concealment. all the evening his eyes wandered to my aunts face, with an expression of the most dismal apprehension, as if he saw her growing thin on the spot. he was conscious of this, and put a constraint upon his head but his keeping that immovable, and sitting rolling his eyes like a piece of machinery, did not mend the matter at all. i saw him look at the loaf at supper which happened to be a small one, as if nothing else stood between us and famine and when my aunt insisted on his making his customary repast, i detected him in the act of pocketing fragments of his bread and cheese i have no doubt for the purpose of reviving us with those savings, when we should have reached an advanced stage of attenuation.

my aunt, on the other hand, was in a composed frame of mind, which was a lesson to all of us  to me, i am sure. she was extremely gracious to peggotty, except when i inadvertently called her by that name and, strange as i knew she felt in london, appeared quite at home. she was to have my bed, and i was to lie in the sittingroom, to keep guard over her. she made a great point of being so near the river, in case of a conflagration and i suppose really did find some satisfaction in that circumstance.

trot, my dear, said my aunt, when she saw me making preparations for compounding her usual nightdraught, no

nothing, aunt

not wine, my dear. ale.

but there is wine here, aunt. and you always have it made of wine.

keep that, in case of sickness, said my aunt. we mustnt use it carelessly, trot. ale for me. half a pint.

i thought mr. dick would have fallen, insensible. my aunt being resolute, i went out and got the ale myself. as it was growing late, peggotty and mr. dick took that opportunity of repairing to the chandlers shop together. i parted from him, poor fellow, at the corner of the street, with his great kite at his back, a very monument of human misery.

my aunt was walking up and down the room when i returned, crimping the borders of her nightcap with her fingers. i warmed the ale and made the toast on the usual infallible principles. when it was ready for her, she was ready for it, with her nightcap on, and the skirt of her gown turned back on her knees.

my dear, said my aunt, after taking a spoonful of it its a great deal better than wine. not half so bilious.

i suppose i looked doubtful, for she added tut, tut, child. if nothing worse than ale happens to us, we are well off.

i should think so myself, aunt, i am sure, said i.

well, then, why dont you think so said my aunt.

because you and i are very different people, i returned.

stuff and nonsense, trot replied my aunt.

my aunt went on with a quiet enjoyment, in which there was very little affectation, if any drinking the warm ale with a teaspoon, and soaking her strips of toast in it.

trot, said she, i dont care for strange faces in general, but i rather like that barkis of yours, do you know

its better than a hundred pounds to hear you say so said i.

its a most extraordinary world, observed my aunt, rubbing her nose how that woman ever got into it with that name, is unaccountable to me. it would be much more easy to be born a jackson, or something of that sort, one would think.

perhaps she thinks so, too its not her fault, said i.

i suppose not, returned my aunt, rather grudging the admission but its very aggravating. however, shes barkis now. thats some comfort. barkis is uncommonly fond of you, trot.

there is nothing she would leave undone to prove it, said i.

nothing, i believe, returned my aunt. here, the poor fool has been begging and praying about handing over some of her money  because she has got too much of it. a simpleton

my aunts tears of pleasure were positively trickling down into the warm ale.

shes the most ridiculous creature that ever was born, said my aunt. i knew, from the first moment when i saw her with that poor dear blessed baby of a mother of yours, that she was the most ridiculous of mortals. but there are good points in barkis

affecting to laugh, she got an opportunity of putting her hand to her eyes. having availed herself of it, she resumed her toast and her discourse together.

ah mercy upon us sighed my aunt. i know all about it, trot

barkis and myself had quite a gossip while you were out with dick.

i know all about it. i dont know where these wretched girls expect to go to, for my part. i wonder they dont knock out their brains against  against mantelpieces, said my aunt an idea which was probably suggested to her by her contemplation of mine.

poor emily said i.

oh, dont talk to me about poor, returned my aunt. she should have thought of that, before she caused so much misery give me a kiss, trot. i am sorry for your early experience.

as i bent forward, she put her tumbler on my knee to detain me, and said oh, trot, trot and so you fancy yourself in love do you

fancy, aunt i exclaimed, as red as i could be. i adore her with my whole soul

dora, indeed returned my aunt. and you mean to say the little thing is very fascinating, i suppose

my dear aunt, i replied, no one can form the least idea what she is

ah and not silly said my aunt.

silly, aunt

i seriously believe it had never once entered my head for a single moment, to consider whether she was or not. i resented the idea, of course but i was in a manner struck by it, as a new one altogether.

not lightheaded said my aunt.

lightheaded, aunt i could only repeat this daring speculation with the same kind of feeling with which i had repeated the preceding question.

well, well said my aunt. i only ask. i dont depreciate her.

poor little couple and so you think you were formed for one another, and are to go through a partysuppertable kind of life, like two pretty pieces of confectionery, do you, trot

she asked me this so kindly, and with such a gentle air, half playful and half sorrowful, that i was quite touched.

we are young and inexperienced, aunt, i know, i replied and i dare say we say and think a good deal that is rather foolish. but we love one another truly, i am sure. if i thought dora could ever love anybody else, or cease to love me or that i could ever love anybody else, or cease to love her i dont know what i should do  go out of my mind, i think

ah, trot said my aunt, shaking her head, and smiling gravely blind, blind, blind

someone that i know, trot, my aunt pursued, after a pause, though of a very pliant disposition, has an earnestness of affection in him that reminds me of poor baby. earnestness is what that somebody must look for, to sustain him and improve him, trot.

deep, downright, faithful earnestness.

if you only knew the earnestness of dora, aunt i cried.

oh, trot she said again blind, blind and without knowing why, i felt a vague unhappy loss or want of something overshadow me like a cloud.

however, said my aunt, i dont want to put two young creatures out of conceit with themselves, or to make them unhappy so, though it is a girl and boy attachment, and girl and boy attachments very often  mind i dont say always  come to nothing, still well be serious about it, and hope for a prosperous issue one of these days. theres time enough for it to come to anything

this was not upon the whole very comforting to a rapturous lover but i was glad to have my aunt in my confidence, and i was mindful of her being fatigued. so i thanked her ardently for this mark of her affection, and for all her other kindnesses towards me and after a tender good night, she took her nightcap into my bedroom.

how miserable i was, when i lay down how i thought and thought about my being poor, in mr. spenlows eyes about my not being what i thought i was, when i proposed to dora about the chivalrous necessity of telling dora what my worldly condition was, and releasing her from her engagement if she thought fit about how i should contrive to live, during the long term of my articles, when i was earning nothing about doing something to assist my aunt, and seeing no way of doing anything about coming down to have no money in my pocket, and to wear a shabby coat, and to be able to carry dora no little presents, and to ride no gallant greys, and to show myself in no agreeable light sordid and selfish as i knew it was, and as i tortured myself by knowing that it was, to let my mind run on my own distress so much, i was so devoted to dora that i could not help it. i knew that it was base in me not to think more of my aunt, and less of myself but, so far, selfishness was inseparable from dora, and i could not put dora on one side for any mortal creature. how exceedingly miserable i was, that night

as to sleep, i had dreams of poverty in all sorts of shapes, but i seemed to dream without the previous ceremony of going to sleep.

now i was ragged, wanting to sell dora matches, six bundles for a halfpenny now i was at the office in a nightgown and boots, remonstrated with by mr. spenlow on appearing before the clients in that airy attire now i was hungrily picking up the crumbs that fell from old tiffeys daily biscuit, regularly eaten when st.

pauls struck one now i was hopelessly endeavouring to get a licence to marry dora, having nothing but one of uriah heeps gloves to offer in exchange, which the whole commons rejected and still, more or less conscious of my own room, i was always tossing about like a distressed ship in a sea of bedclothes.

my aunt was restless, too, for i frequently heard her walking to and fro. two or three times in the course of the night, attired in a long flannel wrapper in which she looked seven feet high, she appeared, like a disturbed ghost, in my room, and came to the side of the sofa on which i lay. on the first occasion i started up in alarm, to learn that she inferred from a particular light in the sky, that westminster abbey was on fire and to be consulted in reference to the probability of its igniting buckingham street, in case the wind changed. lying still, after that, i found that she sat down near me, whispering to herself poor boy and then it made me twenty times more wretched, to know how unselfishly mindful she was of me, and how selfishly mindful i was of myself.

it was difficult to believe that a night so long to me, could be short to anybody else. this consideration set me thinking and thinking of an imaginary party where people were dancing the hours away, until that became a dream too, and i heard the music incessantly playing one tune, and saw dora incessantly dancing one dance, without taking the least notice of me. the man who had been playing the harp all night, was trying in vain to cover it with an ordinarysized nightcap, when i awoke or i should rather say, when i left off trying to go to sleep, and saw the sun shining in through the window at last.

there was an old roman bath in those days at the bottom of one of the streets out of the strand  it may be there still  in which i have had many a cold plunge. dressing myself as quietly as i could, and leaving peggotty to look after my aunt, i tumbled head foremost into it, and then went for a walk to hampstead. i had a hope that this brisk treatment might freshen my wits a little and i think it did them good, for i soon came to the conclusion that the first step i ought to take was, to try if my articles could be cancelled and the premium recovered. i got some breakfast on the heath, and walked back to doctors commons, along the watered roads and through a pleasant smell of summer flowers, growing in gardens and carried into town on hucksters heads, intent on this first effort to meet our altered circumstances.

i arrived at the office so soon, after all, that i had half an hours loitering about the commons, before old tiffey, who was always first, appeared with his key. then i sat down in my shady corner, looking up at the sunlight on the opposite chimneypots, and thinking about dora until mr. spenlow came in, crisp and curly.

how are you, copperfield said he. fine morning

beautiful morning, sir, said i. could i say a word to you before you go into court

by all means, said he. come into my room.

i followed him into his room, and he began putting on his gown, and touching himself up before a little glass he had, hanging inside a closet door.

i am sorry to say, said i, that i have some rather disheartening intelligence from my aunt.

no said he. dear me not paralysis, i hope

it has no reference to her health, sir, i replied. she has met with some large losses. in fact, she has very little left, indeed.

you astound me, copperfield cried mr. spenlow.

i shook my head. indeed, sir, said i, her affairs are so changed, that i wished to ask you whether it would be possible  at a sacrifice on our part of some portion of the premium, of course,

i put in this, on the spur of the moment, warned by the blank expression of his face  to cancel my articles

what it cost me to make this proposal, nobody knows. it was like asking, as a favour, to be sentenced to transportation from dora.

to cancel your articles, copperfield cancel

i explained with tolerable firmness, that i really did not know where my means of subsistence were to come from, unless i could earn them for myself. i had no fear for the future, i said  and i laid great emphasis on that, as if to imply that i should still be decidedly eligible for a soninlaw one of these days  but, for the present, i was thrown upon my own resources.

i am extremely sorry to hear this, copperfield, said mr. spenlow.

extremely sorry. it is not usual to cancel articles for any such reason. it is not a professional course of proceeding. it is not a convenient precedent at all. far from it. at the same time 

you are very good, sir, i murmured, anticipating a concession.

not at all. dont mention it, said mr. spenlow. at the same time, i was going to say, if it had been my lot to have my hands unfettered  if i had not a partner  mr. jorkins 

my hopes were dashed in a moment, but i made another effort.

do you think, sir, said i, if i were to mention it to mr.

jorkins 

mr. spenlow shook his head discouragingly. heaven forbid, copperfield, he replied, that i should do any man an injustice still less, mr. jorkins. but i know my partner, copperfield. mr. jorkins is not a man to respond to a proposition of this peculiar nature. mr. jorkins is very difficult to move from the beaten track. you know what he is

i am sure i knew nothing about him, except that he had originally been alone in the business, and now lived by himself in a house near montagu square, which was fearfully in want of painting that he came very late of a day, and went away very early that he never appeared to be consulted about anything and that he had a dingy little blackhole of his own upstairs, where no business was ever done, and where there was a yellow old cartridgepaper pad upon his desk, unsoiled by ink, and reported to be twenty years of age.

would you object to my mentioning it to him, sir i asked.

by no means, said mr. spenlow. but i have some experience of mr. jorkins, copperfield. i wish it were otherwise, for i should be happy to meet your views in any respect. i cannot have the objection to your mentioning it to mr. jorkins, copperfield, if you think it worth while.

availing myself of this permission, which was given with a warm shake of the hand, i sat thinking about dora, and looking at the sunlight stealing from the chimneypots down the wall of the opposite house, until mr. jorkins came. i then went up to mr. jorkinss room, and evidently astonished mr. jorkins very much by making my appearance there.

come in, mr. copperfield, said mr. jorkins. come in

i went in, and sat down and stated my case to mr. jorkins pretty much as i had stated it to mr. spenlow. mr. jorkins was not by any means the awful creature one might have expected, but a large, mild, smoothfaced man of sixty, who took so much snuff that there was a tradition in the commons that he lived principally on that stimulant, having little room in his system for any other article of diet.

you have mentioned this to mr. spenlow, i suppose said mr. jorkins when he had heard me, very restlessly, to an end.

i answered yes, and told him that mr. spenlow had introduced his name.

he said i should object asked mr. jorkins.

i was obliged to admit that mr. spenlow had considered it probable.

i am sorry to say, mr. copperfield, i cant advance your object, said mr. jorkins, nervously. the fact is  but i have an appointment at the bank, if youll have the goodness to excuse me.

with that he rose in a great hurry, and was going out of the room, when i made bold to say that i feared, then, there was no way of arranging the matter no said mr. jorkins, stopping at the door to shake his head.

oh, no i object, you know, which he said very rapidly, and went out. you must be aware, mr. copperfield, he added, looking restlessly in at the door again, if mr. spenlow objects 

personally, he does not object, sir, said i.

oh personally repeated mr. jorkins, in an impatient manner.

i assure you theres an objection, mr. copperfield. hopeless

what you wish to be done, cant be done. i  i really have got an appointment at the bank. with that he fairly ran away and to the best of my knowledge, it was three days before he showed himself in the commons again.

being very anxious to leave no stone unturned, i waited until mr.

spenlow came in, and then described what had passed giving him to understand that i was not hopeless of his being able to soften the adamantine jorkins, if he would undertake the task.

copperfield, returned mr. spenlow, with a gracious smile, you have not known my partner, mr. jorkins, as long as i have. nothing is farther from my thoughts than to attribute any degree of artifice to mr. jorkins. but mr. jorkins has a way of stating his objections which often deceives people. no, copperfield shaking his head. mr. jorkins is not to be moved, believe me

i was completely bewildered between mr. spenlow and mr. jorkins, as to which of them really was the objecting partner but i saw with sufficient clearness that there was obduracy somewhere in the firm, and that the recovery of my aunts thousand pounds was out of the question. in a state of despondency, which i remember with anything but satisfaction, for i know it still had too much reference to myself though always in connexion with dora, i left the office, and went homeward.

i was trying to familiarize my mind with the worst, and to present to myself the arrangements we should have to make for the future in their sternest aspect, when a hackneychariot coming after me, and stopping at my very feet, occasioned me to look up. a fair hand was stretched forth to me from the window and the face i had never seen without a feeling of serenity and happiness, from the moment when it first turned back on the old oak staircase with the great broad balustrade, and when i associated its softened beauty with the stainedglass window in the church, was smiling on me.

agnes i joyfully exclaimed. oh, my dear agnes, of all people in the world, what a pleasure to see you

is it, indeed she said, in her cordial voice.

i want to talk to you so much said i. its such a lightening of my heart, only to look at you if i had had a conjurors cap, there is no one i should have wished for but you

what returned agnes.

well perhaps dora first, i admitted, with a blush.

certainly, dora first, i hope, said agnes, laughing.

but you next said i. where are you going

she was going to my rooms to see my aunt. the day being very fine, she was glad to come out of the chariot, which smelt i had my head in it all this time like a stable put under a cucumberframe. i dismissed the coachman, and she took my arm, and we walked on together. she was like hope embodied, to me. how different i felt in one short minute, having agnes at my side

my aunt had written her one of the odd, abrupt notes  very little longer than a bank note  to which her epistolary efforts were usually limited. she had stated therein that she had fallen into adversity, and was leaving dover for good, but had quite made up her mind to it, and was so well that nobody need be uncomfortable about her. agnes had come to london to see my aunt, between whom and herself there had been a mutual liking these many years indeed, it dated from the time of my taking up my residence in mr.

wickfields house. she was not alone, she said. her papa was with her  and uriah heep.

and now they are partners, said i. confound him

yes, said agnes. they have some business here and i took advantage of their coming, to come too. you must not think my visit all friendly and disinterested, trotwood, for  i am afraid i may be cruelly prejudiced  i do not like to let papa go away alone, with him.

does he exercise the same influence over mr. wickfield still, agnes

agnes shook her head. there is such a change at home, said she, that you would scarcely know the dear old house. they live with us now.

they said i.

mr. heep and his mother. he sleeps in your old room, said agnes, looking up into my face.

i wish i had the ordering of his dreams, said i. he wouldnt sleep there long.

i keep my own little room, said agnes, where i used to learn my lessons. how the time goes you remember the little panelled room that opens from the drawingroom

remember, agnes when i saw you, for the first time, coming out at the door, with your quaint little basket of keys hanging at your side

it is just the same, said agnes, smiling. i am glad you think of it so pleasantly. we were very happy.

we were, indeed, said i.

i keep that room to myself still but i cannot always desert mrs.

heep, you know. and so, said agnes, quietly, i feel obliged to bear her company, when i might prefer to be alone. but i have no other reason to complain of her. if she tires me, sometimes, by her praises of her son, it is only natural in a mother. he is a very good son to her.

i looked at agnes when she said these words, without detecting in her any consciousness of uriahs design. her mild but earnest eyes met mine with their own beautiful frankness, and there was no change in her gentle face.

the chief evil of their presence in the house, said agnes, is that i cannot be as near papa as i could wish  uriah heep being so much between us  and cannot watch over him, if that is not too bold a thing to say, as closely as i would. but if any fraud or treachery is practising against him, i hope that simple love and truth will be strong in the end. i hope that real love and truth are stronger in the end than any evil or misfortune in the world.

a certain bright smile, which i never saw on any other face, died away, even while i thought how good it was, and how familiar it had once been to me and she asked me, with a quick change of expression we were drawing very near my street, if i knew how the reverse in my aunts circumstances had been brought about. on my replying no, she had not told me yet, agnes became thoughtful, and i fancied i felt her arm tremble in mine.

we found my aunt alone, in a state of some excitement. a difference of opinion had arisen between herself and mrs. crupp, on an abstract question the propriety of chambers being inhabited by the gentler sex and my aunt, utterly indifferent to spasms on the part of mrs. crupp, had cut the dispute short, by informing that lady that she smelt of my brandy, and that she would trouble her to walk out. both of these expressions mrs. crupp considered actionable, and had expressed her intention of bringing before a british judy  meaning, it was supposed, the bulwark of our national liberties.

my aunt, however, having had time to cool, while peggotty was out showing mr. dick the soldiers at the horse guards  and being, besides, greatly pleased to see agnes  rather plumed herself on the affair than otherwise, and received us with unimpaired good humour. when agnes laid her bonnet on the table, and sat down beside her, i could not but think, looking on her mild eyes and her radiant forehead, how natural it seemed to have her there how trustfully, although she was so young and inexperienced, my aunt confided in her how strong she was, indeed, in simple love and truth.

we began to talk about my aunts losses, and i told them what i had tried to do that morning.

which was injudicious, trot, said my aunt, but well meant. you are a generous boy  i suppose i must say, young man, now  and i am proud of you, my dear. so far, so good. now, trot and agnes, let us look the case of betsey trotwood in the face, and see how it stands.

i observed agnes turn pale, as she looked very attentively at my aunt. my aunt, patting her cat, looked very attentively at agnes.

betsey trotwood, said my aunt, who had always kept her money matters to herself.  i dont mean your sister, trot, my dear, but myself  had a certain property. it dont matter how much enough to live on. more for she had saved a little, and added to it. betsey funded her property for some time, and then, by the advice of her man of business, laid it out on landed security.

that did very well, and returned very good interest, till betsey was paid off. i am talking of betsey as if she was a manofwar.

well then, betsey had to look about her, for a new investment.

she thought she was wiser, now, than her man of business, who was not such a good man of business by this time, as he used to be  i am alluding to your father, agnes  and she took it into her head to lay it out for herself. so she took her pigs, said my aunt, to a foreign market and a very bad market it turned out to be.

first, she lost in the mining way, and then she lost in the diving way  fishing up treasure, or some such tom tiddler nonsense, explained my aunt, rubbing her nose and then she lost in the mining way again, and, last of all, to set the thing entirely to rights, she lost in the banking way. i dont know what the bank shares were worth for a little while, said my aunt cent per cent was the lowest of it, i believe but the bank was at the other end of the world, and tumbled into space, for what i know anyhow, it fell to pieces, and never will and never can pay sixpence and betseys sixpences were all there, and theres an end of them.

least said, soonest mended

my aunt concluded this philosophical summary, by fixing her eyes with a kind of triumph on agnes, whose colour was gradually returning.

dear miss trotwood, is that all the history said agnes.

i hope its enough, child, said my aunt. if there had been more money to lose, it wouldnt have been all, i dare say. betsey would have contrived to throw that after the rest, and make another chapter, i have little doubt. but there was no more money, and theres no more story.

agnes had listened at first with suspended breath. her colour still came and went, but she breathed more freely. i thought i knew why. i thought she had had some fear that her unhappy father might be in some way to blame for what had happened. my aunt took her hand in hers, and laughed.

is that all repeated my aunt. why, yes, thats all, except,

and she lived happy ever afterwards. perhaps i may add that of betsey yet, one of these days. now, agnes, you have a wise head.

so have you, trot, in some things, though i cant compliment you always and here my aunt shook her own at me, with an energy peculiar to herself. whats to be done heres the cottage, taking one time with another, will produce say seventy pounds a year. i think we may safely put it down at that. well  thats all weve got, said my aunt with whom it was an idiosyncrasy, as it is with some horses, to stop very short when she appeared to be in a fair way of going on for a long while.

then, said my aunt, after a rest, theres dick. hes good for a hundred ayear, but of course that must be expended on himself.

i would sooner send him away, though i know i am the only person who appreciates him, than have him, and not spend his money on himself. how can trot and i do best, upon our means what do you say, agnes

i say, aunt, i interposed, that i must do something

go for a soldier, do you mean returned my aunt, alarmed or go to sea i wont hear of it. you are to be a proctor. were not going to have any knockings on the head in this family, if you please, sir.

i was about to explain that i was not desirous of introducing that mode of provision into the family, when agnes inquired if my rooms were held for any long term you come to the point, my dear, said my aunt. they are not to be got rid of, for six months at least, unless they could be underlet, and that i dont believe. the last man died here. five people out of six would die  of course  of that woman in nankeen with the flannel petticoat. i have a little ready money and i agree with you, the best thing we can do, is, to live the term out here, and get a bedroom hard by.

i thought it my duty to hint at the discomfort my aunt would sustain, from living in a continual state of guerilla warfare with mrs. crupp but she disposed of that objection summarily by declaring that, on the first demonstration of hostilities, she was prepared to astonish mrs. crupp for the whole remainder of her natural life.

i have been thinking, trotwood, said agnes, diffidently, that if you had time 

i have a good deal of time, agnes. i am always disengaged after four or five oclock, and i have time early in the morning. in one way and another, said i, conscious of reddening a little as i thought of the hours and hours i had devoted to fagging about town, and to and fro upon the norwood road, i have abundance of time.

i know you would not mind, said agnes, coming to me, and speaking in a low voice, so full of sweet and hopeful consideration that i hear it now, the duties of a secretary.

mind, my dear agnes

because, continued agnes, doctor strong has acted on his intention of retiring, and has come to live in london and he asked papa, i know, if he could recommend him one. dont you think he would rather have his favourite old pupil near him, than anybody else

dear agnes said i. what should i do without you you are always my good angel. i told you so. i never think of you in any other light.

agnes answered with her pleasant laugh, that one good angel meaning dora was enough and went on to remind me that the doctor had been used to occupy himself in his study, early in the morning, and in the evening  and that probably my leisure would suit his requirements very well. i was scarcely more delighted with the prospect of earning my own bread, than with the hope of earning it under my old master in short, acting on the advice of agnes, i sat down and wrote a letter to the doctor, stating my object, and appointing to call on him next day at ten in the forenoon. this i addressed to highgate  for in that place, so memorable to me, he lived  and went and posted, myself, without losing a minute.

wherever agnes was, some agreeable token of her noiseless presence seemed inseparable from the place. when i came back, i found my aunts birds hanging, just as they had hung so long in the parlour window of the cottage and my easychair imitating my aunts much easier chair in its position at the open window and even the round green fan, which my aunt had brought away with her, screwed on to the windowsill. i knew who had done all this, by its seeming to have quietly done itself and i should have known in a moment who had arranged my neglected books in the old order of my school days, even if i had supposed agnes to be miles away, instead of seeing her busy with them, and smiling at the disorder into which they had fallen.

my aunt was quite gracious on the subject of the thames it really did look very well with the sun upon it, though not like the sea before the cottage, but she could not relent towards the london smoke, which, she said, peppered everything. a complete revolution, in which peggotty bore a prominent part, was being effected in every corner of my rooms, in regard of this pepper and i was looking on, thinking how little even peggotty seemed to do with a good deal of bustle, and how much agnes did without any bustle at all, when a knock came at the door.

i think, said agnes, turning pale, its papa. he promised me that he would come.

i opened the door, and admitted, not only mr. wickfield, but uriah heep. i had not seen mr. wickfield for some time. i was prepared for a great change in him, after what i had heard from agnes, but his appearance shocked me.

it was not that he looked many years older, though still dressed with the old scrupulous cleanliness or that there was an unwholesome ruddiness upon his face or that his eyes were full and bloodshot or that there was a nervous trembling in his hand, the cause of which i knew, and had for some years seen at work. it was not that he had lost his good looks, or his old bearing of a gentleman  for that he had not  but the thing that struck me most, was, that with the evidences of his native superiority still upon him, he should submit himself to that crawling impersonation of meanness, uriah heep. the reversal of the two natures, in their relative positions, uriahs of power and mr. wickfields of dependence, was a sight more painful to me than i can express. if i had seen an ape taking command of a man, i should hardly have thought it a more degrading spectacle.

he appeared to be only too conscious of it himself. when he came in, he stood still and with his head bowed, as if he felt it.

this was only for a moment for agnes softly said to him, papa

here is miss trotwood  and trotwood, whom you have not seen for a long while and then he approached, and constrainedly gave my aunt his hand, and shook hands more cordially with me. in the moments pause i speak of, i saw uriahs countenance form itself into a most illfavoured smile. agnes saw it too, i think, for she shrank from him.

what my aunt saw, or did not see, i defy the science of physiognomy to have made out, without her own consent. i believe there never was anybody with such an imperturbable countenance when she chose.

her face might have been a deadwall on the occasion in question, for any light it threw upon her thoughts until she broke silence with her usual abruptness.

well, wickfield said my aunt and he looked up at her for the first time. i have been telling your daughter how well i have been disposing of my money for myself, because i couldnt trust it to you, as you were growing rusty in business matters. we have been taking counsel together, and getting on very well, all things considered. agnes is worth the whole firm, in my opinion.

if i may umbly make the remark, said uriah heep, with a writhe, i fully agree with miss betsey trotwood, and should be only too appy if miss agnes was a partner.

youre a partner yourself, you know, returned my aunt, and thats about enough for you, i expect. how do you find yourself, sir

in acknowledgement of this question, addressed to him with extraordinary curtness, mr. heep, uncomfortably clutching the blue bag he carried, replied that he was pretty well, he thanked my aunt, and hoped she was the same.

and you, master  i should say, mister copperfield, pursued uriah. i hope i see you well i am rejoiced to see you, mister copperfield, even under present circumstances. i believed that for he seemed to relish them very much. present circumstances is not what your friends would wish for you, mister copperfield, but it isnt money makes the man its  i am really unequal with my umble powers to express what it is, said uriah, with a fawning jerk, but it isnt money

here he shook hands with me not in the common way, but standing at a good distance from me, and lifting my hand up and down like a pump handle, that he was a little afraid of.

and how do you think we are looking, master copperfield,  i should say, mister fawned uriah. dont you find mr. wickfield blooming, sir years dont tell much in our firm, master copperfield, except in raising up the umble, namely, mother and self  and in developing, he added, as an afterthought, the beautiful, namely, miss agnes.

he jerked himself about, after this compliment, in such an intolerable manner, that my aunt, who had sat looking straight at him, lost all patience.

deuce take the man said my aunt, sternly, whats he about

dont be galvanic, sir

i ask your pardon, miss trotwood, returned uriah im aware youre nervous.

go along with you, sir said my aunt, anything but appeased.

dont presume to say so i am nothing of the sort. if youre an eel, sir, conduct yourself like one. if youre a man, control your limbs, sir good god said my aunt, with great indignation, i am not going to be serpentined and corkscrewed out of my senses

mr. heep was rather abashed, as most people might have been, by this explosion which derived great additional force from the indignant manner in which my aunt afterwards moved in her chair, and shook her head as if she were making snaps or bounces at him.

but he said to me aside in a meek voice i am well aware, master copperfield, that miss trotwood, though an excellent lady, has a quick temper indeed i think i had the pleasure of knowing her, when i was a numble clerk, before you did, master copperfield, and its only natural, i am sure, that it should be made quicker by present circumstances. the wonder is, that it isnt much worse i only called to say that if there was anything we could do, in present circumstances, mother or self, or wickfield and heep, we should be really glad. i may go so far said uriah, with a sickly smile at his partner.

uriah heep, said mr. wickfield, in a monotonous forced way, is active in the business, trotwood. what he says, i quite concur in.

you know i had an old interest in you. apart from that, what uriah says i quite concur in

oh, what a reward it is, said uriah, drawing up one leg, at the risk of bringing down upon himself another visitation from my aunt, to be so trusted in but i hope i am able to do something to relieve him from the fatigues of business, master copperfield

uriah heep is a great relief to me, said mr. wickfield, in the same dull voice. its a load off my mind, trotwood, to have such a partner.

the red fox made him say all this, i knew, to exhibit him to me in the light he had indicated on the night when he poisoned my rest.

i saw the same illfavoured smile upon his face again, and saw how he watched me.

you are not going, papa said agnes, anxiously. will you not walk back with trotwood and me

he would have looked to uriah, i believe, before replying, if that worthy had not anticipated him.

i am bespoke myself, said uriah, on business otherwise i should have been appy to have kept with my friends. but i leave my partner to represent the firm. miss agnes, ever yours i wish you goodday, master copperfield, and leave my umble respects for miss betsey trotwood.

with those words, he retired, kissing his great hand, and leering at us like a mask.

we sat there, talking about our pleasant old canterbury days, an hour or two. mr. wickfield, left to agnes, soon became more like his former self though there was a settled depression upon him, which he never shook off. for all that, he brightened and had an evident pleasure in hearing us recall the little incidents of our old life, many of which he remembered very well. he said it was like those times, to be alone with agnes and me again and he wished to heaven they had never changed. i am sure there was an influence in the placid face of agnes, and in the very touch of her hand upon his arm, that did wonders for him.

my aunt who was busy nearly all this while with peggotty, in the inner room would not accompany us to the place where they were staying, but insisted on my going and i went. we dined together.

after dinner, agnes sat beside him, as of old, and poured out his wine. he took what she gave him, and no more  like a child  and we all three sat together at a window as the evening gathered in.

when it was almost dark, he lay down on a sofa, agnes pillowing his head and bending over him a little while and when she came back to the window, it was not so dark but i could see tears glittering in her eyes.

i pray heaven that i never may forget the dear girl in her love and truth, at that time of my life for if i should, i must be drawing near the end, and then i would desire to remember her best she filled my heart with such good resolutions, strengthened my weakness so, by her example, so directed  i know not how, she was too modest and gentle to advise me in many words  the wandering ardour and unsettled purpose within me, that all the little good i have done, and all the harm i have forborne, i solemnly believe i may refer to her.

and how she spoke to me of dora, sitting at the window in the dark listened to my praises of her praised again and round the little fairyfigure shed some glimpses of her own pure light, that made it yet more precious and more innocent to me oh, agnes, sister of my boyhood, if i had known then, what i knew long afterwards  there was a beggar in the street, when i went down and as i turned my head towards the window, thinking of her calm seraphic eyes, he made me start by muttering, as if he were an echo of the morning blind blind blind



chapter 

enthusiasm

i began the next day with another dive into the roman bath, and then started for highgate. i was not dispirited now. i was not afraid of the shabby coat, and had no yearnings after gallant greys. my whole manner of thinking of our late misfortune was changed. what i had to do, was, to show my aunt that her past goodness to me had not been thrown away on an insensible, ungrateful object. what i had to do, was, to turn the painful discipline of my younger days to account, by going to work with a resolute and steady heart. what i had to do, was, to take my woodmans axe in my hand, and clear my own way through the forest of difficulty, by cutting down the trees until i came to dora. and i went on at a mighty rate, as if it could be done by walking.

when i found myself on the familiar highgate road, pursuing such a different errand from that old one of pleasure, with which it was associated, it seemed as if a complete change had come on my whole life. but that did not discourage me. with the new life, came new purpose, new intention. great was the labour priceless the reward. dora was the reward, and dora must be won.

i got into such a transport, that i felt quite sorry my coat was not a little shabby already. i wanted to be cutting at those trees in the forest of difficulty, under circumstances that should prove my strength. i had a good mind to ask an old man, in wire spectacles, who was breaking stones upon the road, to lend me his hammer for a little while, and let me begin to beat a path to dora out of granite. i stimulated myself into such a heat, and got so out of breath, that i felt as if i had been earning i dont know how much.

in this state, i went into a cottage that i saw was to let, and examined it narrowly,  for i felt it necessary to be practical.

it would do for me and dora admirably with a little front garden for jip to run about in, and bark at the tradespeople through the railings, and a capital room upstairs for my aunt. i came out again, hotter and faster than ever, and dashed up to highgate, at such a rate that i was there an hour too early and, though i had not been, should have been obliged to stroll about to cool myself, before i was at all presentable.

my first care, after putting myself under this necessary course of preparation, was to find the doctors house. it was not in that part of highgate where mrs. steerforth lived, but quite on the opposite side of the little town. when i had made this discovery, i went back, in an attraction i could not resist, to a lane by mrs.

steerforths, and looked over the corner of the garden wall. his room was shut up close. the conservatory doors were standing open, and rosa dartle was walking, bareheaded, with a quick, impetuous step, up and down a gravel walk on one side of the lawn. she gave me the idea of some fierce thing, that was dragging the length of its chain to and fro upon a beaten track, and wearing its heart out.

i came softly away from my place of observation, and avoiding that part of the neighbourhood, and wishing i had not gone near it, strolled about until it was ten oclock. the church with the slender spire, that stands on the top of the hill now, was not there then to tell me the time. an old redbrick mansion, used as a school, was in its place and a fine old house it must have been to go to school at, as i recollect it.

when i approached the doctors cottage  a pretty old place, on which he seemed to have expended some money, if i might judge from the embellishments and repairs that had the look of being just completed  i saw him walking in the garden at the side, gaiters and all, as if he had never left off walking since the days of my pupilage. he had his old companions about him, too for there were plenty of high trees in the neighbourhood, and two or three rooks were on the grass, looking after him, as if they had been written to about him by the canterbury rooks, and were observing him closely in consequence.

knowing the utter hopelessness of attracting his attention from that distance, i made bold to open the gate, and walk after him, so as to meet him when he should turn round. when he did, and came towards me, he looked at me thoughtfully for a few moments, evidently without thinking about me at all and then his benevolent face expressed extraordinary pleasure, and he took me by both hands.

why, my dear copperfield, said the doctor, you are a man how do you do i am delighted to see you. my dear copperfield, how very much you have improved you are quite  yes  dear me

i hoped he was well, and mrs. strong too.

oh dear, yes said the doctor annies quite well, and shell be delighted to see you. you were always her favourite. she said so, last night, when i showed her your letter. and  yes, to be sure  you recollect mr. jack maldon, copperfield

perfectly, sir.

of course, said the doctor. to be sure. hes pretty well, too.

has he come home, sir i inquired.

from india said the doctor. yes. mr. jack maldon couldnt bear the climate, my dear. mrs. markleham  you have not forgotten mrs. markleham

forgotten the old soldier and in that short time mrs. markleham, said the doctor, was quite vexed about him, poor thing so we have got him at home again and we have bought him a little patent place, which agrees with him much better.

i knew enough of mr. jack maldon to suspect from this account that it was a place where there was not much to do, and which was pretty well paid. the doctor, walking up and down with his hand on my shoulder, and his kind face turned encouragingly to mine, went on now, my dear copperfield, in reference to this proposal of yours.

its very gratifying and agreeable to me, i am sure but dont you think you could do better you achieved distinction, you know, when you were with us. you are qualified for many good things.

you have laid a foundation that any edifice may be raised upon and is it not a pity that you should devote the springtime of your life to such a poor pursuit as i can offer

i became very glowing again, and, expressing myself in a rhapsodical style, i am afraid, urged my request strongly reminding the doctor that i had already a profession.

well, well, said the doctor, thats true. certainly, your having a profession, and being actually engaged in studying it, makes a difference. but, my good young friend, whats seventy pounds a year

it doubles our income, doctor strong, said i.

dear me replied the doctor. to think of that not that i mean to say its rigidly limited to seventy pounds ayear, because i have always contemplated making any young friend i might thus employ, a present too. undoubtedly, said the doctor, still walking me up and down with his hand on my shoulder. i have always taken an annual present into account.

my dear tutor, said i now, really, without any nonsense, to whom i owe more obligations already than i ever can acknowledge 

no, no, interposed the doctor. pardon me

if you will take such time as i have, and that is my mornings and evenings, and can think it worth seventy pounds a year, you will do me such a service as i cannot express.

dear me said the doctor, innocently. to think that so little should go for so much dear, dear and when you can do better, you will on your word, now said the doctor,  which he had always made a very grave appeal to the honour of us boys.

on my word, sir i returned, answering in our old school manner.

then be it so, said the doctor, clapping me on the shoulder, and still keeping his hand there, as we still walked up and down.

and i shall be twenty times happier, sir, said i, with a little  i hope innocent  flattery, if my employment is to be on the dictionary.

the doctor stopped, smilingly clapped me on the shoulder again, and exclaimed, with a triumph most delightful to behold, as if i had penetrated to the profoundest depths of mortal sagacity, my dear young friend, you have hit it. it is the dictionary

how could it be anything else his pockets were as full of it as his head. it was sticking out of him in all directions. he told me that since his retirement from scholastic life, he had been advancing with it wonderfully and that nothing could suit him better than the proposed arrangements for morning and evening work, as it was his custom to walk about in the daytime with his considering cap on. his papers were in a little confusion, in consequence of mr. jack maldon having lately proffered his occasional services as an amanuensis, and not being accustomed to that occupation but we should soon put right what was amiss, and go on swimmingly. afterwards, when we were fairly at our work, i found mr. jack maldons efforts more troublesome to me than i had expected, as he had not confined himself to making numerous mistakes, but had sketched so many soldiers, and ladies heads, over the doctors manuscript, that i often became involved in labyrinths of obscurity.

the doctor was quite happy in the prospect of our going to work together on that wonderful performance, and we settled to begin next morning at seven oclock. we were to work two hours every morning, and two or three hours every night, except on saturdays, when i was to rest. on sundays, of course, i was to rest also, and i considered these very easy terms.

our plans being thus arranged to our mutual satisfaction, the doctor took me into the house to present me to mrs. strong, whom we found in the doctors new study, dusting his books,  a freedom which he never permitted anybody else to take with those sacred favourites.

they had postponed their breakfast on my account, and we sat down to table together. we had not been seated long, when i saw an approaching arrival in mrs. strongs face, before i heard any sound of it. a gentleman on horseback came to the gate, and leading his horse into the little court, with the bridle over his arm, as if he were quite at home, tied him to a ring in the empty coachhouse wall, and came into the breakfast parlour, whip in hand. it was mr. jack maldon and mr. jack maldon was not at all improved by india, i thought. i was in a state of ferocious virtue, however, as to young men who were not cutting down trees in the forest of difficulty and my impression must be received with due allowance.

mr. jack said the doctor. copperfield

mr. jack maldon shook hands with me but not very warmly, i believed and with an air of languid patronage, at which i secretly took great umbrage. but his languor altogether was quite a wonderful sight except when he addressed himself to his cousin annie.

have you breakfasted this morning, mr. jack said the doctor.

i hardly ever take breakfast, sir, he replied, with his head thrown back in an easychair. i find it bores me.

is there any news today inquired the doctor.

nothing at all, sir, replied mr. maldon. theres an account about the people being hungry and discontented down in the north, but they are always being hungry and discontented somewhere.

the doctor looked grave, and said, as though he wished to change the subject, then theres no news at all and no news, they say, is good news.

theres a long statement in the papers, sir, about a murder, observed mr. maldon. but somebody is always being murdered, and i didnt read it.

a display of indifference to all the actions and passions of mankind was not supposed to be such a distinguished quality at that time, i think, as i have observed it to be considered since. i have known it very fashionable indeed. i have seen it displayed with such success, that i have encountered some fine ladies and gentlemen who might as well have been born caterpillars. perhaps it impressed me the more then, because it was new to me, but it certainly did not tend to exalt my opinion of, or to strengthen my confidence in, mr. jack maldon.

i came out to inquire whether annie would like to go to the opera tonight, said mr. maldon, turning to her. its the last good night there will be, this season and theres a singer there, whom she really ought to hear. she is perfectly exquisite. besides which, she is so charmingly ugly, relapsing into languor.

the doctor, ever pleased with what was likely to please his young wife, turned to her and said you must go, annie. you must go.

i would rather not, she said to the doctor. i prefer to remain at home. i would much rather remain at home.

without looking at her cousin, she then addressed me, and asked me about agnes, and whether she should see her, and whether she was not likely to come that day and was so much disturbed, that i wondered how even the doctor, buttering his toast, could be blind to what was so obvious.

but he saw nothing. he told her, goodnaturedly, that she was young and ought to be amused and entertained, and must not allow herself to be made dull by a dull old fellow. moreover, he said, he wanted to hear her sing all the new singers songs to him and how could she do that well, unless she went so the doctor persisted in making the engagement for her, and mr. jack maldon was to come back to dinner. this concluded, he went to his patent place, i suppose but at all events went away on his horse, looking very idle.

i was curious to find out next morning, whether she had been. she had not, but had sent into london to put her cousin off and had gone out in the afternoon to see agnes, and had prevailed upon the doctor to go with her and they had walked home by the fields, the doctor told me, the evening being delightful. i wondered then, whether she would have gone if agnes had not been in town, and whether agnes had some good influence over her too

she did not look very happy, i thought but it was a good face, or a very false one. i often glanced at it, for she sat in the window all the time we were at work and made our breakfast, which we took by snatches as we were employed. when i left, at nine oclock, she was kneeling on the ground at the doctors feet, putting on his shoes and gaiters for him. there was a softened shade upon her face, thrown from some green leaves overhanging the open window of the low room and i thought all the way to doctors commons, of the night when i had seen it looking at him as he read.

i was pretty busy now up at five in the morning, and home at nine or ten at night. but i had infinite satisfaction in being so closely engaged, and never walked slowly on any account, and felt enthusiastically that the more i tired myself, the more i was doing to deserve dora. i had not revealed myself in my altered character to dora yet, because she was coming to see miss mills in a few days, and i deferred all i had to tell her until then merely informing her in my letters all our communications were secretly forwarded through miss mills, that i had much to tell her. in the meantime, i put myself on a short allowance of bears grease, wholly abandoned scented soap and lavender water, and sold off three waistcoats at a prodigious sacrifice, as being too luxurious for my stern career.

not satisfied with all these proceedings, but burning with impatience to do something more, i went to see traddles, now lodging up behind the parapet of a house in castle street, holborn.

mr. dick, who had been with me to highgate twice already, and had resumed his companionship with the doctor, i took with me.

i took mr. dick with me, because, acutely sensitive to my aunts reverses, and sincerely believing that no galleyslave or convict worked as i did, he had begun to fret and worry himself out of spirits and appetite, as having nothing useful to do. in this condition, he felt more incapable of finishing the memorial than ever and the harder he worked at it, the oftener that unlucky head of king charles the first got into it. seriously apprehending that his malady would increase, unless we put some innocent deception upon him and caused him to believe that he was useful, or unless we could put him in the way of being really useful which would be better, i made up my mind to try if traddles could help us.

before we went, i wrote traddles a full statement of all that had happened, and traddles wrote me back a capital answer, expressive of his sympathy and friendship.

we found him hard at work with his inkstand and papers, refreshed by the sight of the flowerpot stand and the little round table in a corner of the small apartment. he received us cordially, and made friends with mr. dick in a moment. mr. dick professed an absolute certainty of having seen him before, and we both said, very likely.

the first subject on which i had to consult traddles was this,  i had heard that many men distinguished in various pursuits had begun life by reporting the debates in parliament. traddles having mentioned newspapers to me, as one of his hopes, i had put the two things together, and told traddles in my letter that i wished to know how i could qualify myself for this pursuit. traddles now informed me, as the result of his inquiries, that the mere mechanical acquisition necessary, except in rare cases, for thorough excellence in it, that is to say, a perfect and entire command of the mystery of shorthand writing and reading, was about equal in difficulty to the mastery of six languages and that it might perhaps be attained, by dint of perseverance, in the course of a few years. traddles reasonably supposed that this would settle the business but i, only feeling that here indeed were a few tall trees to be hewn down, immediately resolved to work my way on to dora through this thicket, axe in hand.

i am very much obliged to you, my dear traddles said i. ill begin tomorrow.

traddles looked astonished, as he well might but he had no notion as yet of my rapturous condition.

ill buy a book, said i, with a good scheme of this art in it

ill work at it at the commons, where i havent half enough to do

ill take down the speeches in our court for practice  traddles, my dear fellow, ill master it

dear me, said traddles, opening his eyes, i had no idea you were such a determined character, copperfield

i dont know how he should have had, for it was new enough to me.

i passed that off, and brought mr. dick on the carpet.

you see, said mr. dick, wistfully, if i could exert myself, mr.

traddles  if i could beat a drum or blow anything

poor fellow i have little doubt he would have preferred such an employment in his heart to all others. traddles, who would not have smiled for the world, replied composedly but you are a very good penman, sir. you told me so, copperfield

excellent said i. and indeed he was. he wrote with extraordinary neatness.

dont you think, said traddles, you could copy writings, sir, if i got them for you

mr. dick looked doubtfully at me. eh, trotwood

i shook my head. mr. dick shook his, and sighed. tell him about the memorial, said mr. dick.

i explained to traddles that there was a difficulty in keeping king charles the first out of mr. dicks manuscripts mr. dick in the meanwhile looking very deferentially and seriously at traddles, and sucking his thumb.

but these writings, you know, that i speak of, are already drawn up and finished, said traddles after a little consideration. mr.

dick has nothing to do with them. wouldnt that make a difference, copperfield at all events, wouldnt it be well to try

this gave us new hope. traddles and i laying our heads together apart, while mr. dick anxiously watched us from his chair, we concocted a scheme in virtue of which we got him to work next day, with triumphant success.

on a table by the window in buckingham street, we set out the work traddles procured for him  which was to make, i forget how many copies of a legal document about some right of way  and on another table we spread the last unfinished original of the great memorial.

our instructions to mr. dick were that he should copy exactly what he had before him, without the least departure from the original and that when he felt it necessary to make the slightest allusion to king charles the first, he should fly to the memorial. we exhorted him to be resolute in this, and left my aunt to observe him. my aunt reported to us, afterwards, that, at first, he was like a man playing the kettledrums, and constantly divided his attentions between the two but that, finding this confuse and fatigue him, and having his copy there, plainly before his eyes, he soon sat at it in an orderly businesslike manner, and postponed the memorial to a more convenient time. in a word, although we took great care that he should have no more to do than was good for him, and although he did not begin with the beginning of a week, he earned by the following saturday night ten shillings and ninepence and never, while i live, shall i forget his going about to all the shops in the neighbourhood to change this treasure into sixpences, or his bringing them to my aunt arranged in the form of a heart upon a waiter, with tears of joy and pride in his eyes. he was like one under the propitious influence of a charm, from the moment of his being usefully employed and if there were a happy man in the world, that saturday night, it was the grateful creature who thought my aunt the most wonderful woman in existence, and me the most wonderful young man.

no starving now, trotwood, said mr. dick, shaking hands with me in a corner. ill provide for her, sir and he flourished his ten fingers in the air, as if they were ten banks.

i hardly know which was the better pleased, traddles or i. it really, said traddles, suddenly, taking a letter out of his pocket, and giving it to me, put mr. micawber quite out of my head

the letter mr. micawber never missed any possible opportunity of writing a letter was addressed to me, by the kindness of t.

traddles, esquire, of the inner temple. it ran thus 


my dear copperfield, you may possibly not be unprepared to receive the intimation that something has turned up. i may have mentioned to you on a former occasion that i was in expectation of such an event.

i am about to establish myself in one of the provincial towns of our favoured island where the society may be described as a happy admixture of the agricultural and the clerical, in immediate connexion with one of the learned professions. mrs. micawber and our offspring will accompany me. our ashes, at a future period, will probably be found commingled in the cemetery attached to a venerable pile, for which the spot to which i refer has acquired a reputation, shall i say from china to peru in bidding adieu to the modern babylon, where we have undergone many vicissitudes, i trust not ignobly, mrs. micawber and myself cannot disguise from our minds that we part, it may be for years and it may be for ever, with an individual linked by strong associations to the altar of our domestic life. if, on the eve of such a departure, you will accompany our mutual friend, mr. thomas traddles, to our present abode, and there reciprocate the wishes natural to the occasion, you will confer a boon on one who is ever yours, wilkins micawber.


i was glad to find that mr. micawber had got rid of his dust and ashes, and that something really had turned up at last. learning from traddles that the invitation referred to the evening then wearing away, i expressed my readiness to do honour to it and we went off together to the lodging which mr. micawber occupied as mr.

mortimer, and which was situated near the top of the grays inn road.

the resources of this lodging were so limited, that we found the twins, now some eight or nine years old, reposing in a turnup bedstead in the family sittingroom, where mr. micawber had prepared, in a washhandstand jug, what he called a brew of the agreeable beverage for which he was famous. i had the pleasure, on this occasion, of renewing the acquaintance of master micawber, whom i found a promising boy of about twelve or thirteen, very subject to that restlessness of limb which is not an unfrequent phenomenon in youths of his age. i also became once more known to his sister, miss micawber, in whom, as mr. micawber told us, her mother renewed her youth, like the phoenix.

my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber, yourself and mr.

traddles find us on the brink of migration, and will excuse any little discomforts incidental to that position.

glancing round as i made a suitable reply, i observed that the family effects were already packed, and that the amount of luggage was by no means overwhelming. i congratulated mrs. micawber on the approaching change.

my dear mr. copperfield, said mrs. micawber, of your friendly interest in all our affairs, i am well assured. my family may consider it banishment, if they please but i am a wife and mother, and i never will desert mr. micawber.

traddles, appealed to by mrs. micawbers eye, feelingly acquiesced.

that, said mrs. micawber, that, at least, is my view, my dear mr. copperfield and mr. traddles, of the obligation which i took upon myself when i repeated the irrevocable words, i, emma, take thee, wilkins. i read the service over with a flatcandle on the previous night, and the conclusion i derived from it was, that i never could desert mr. micawber. and, said mrs. micawber, though it is possible i may be mistaken in my view of the ceremony, i never will

my dear, said mr. micawber, a little impatiently, i am not conscious that you are expected to do anything of the sort.

i am aware, my dear mr. copperfield, pursued mrs. micawber, that i am now about to cast my lot among strangers and i am also aware that the various members of my family, to whom mr. micawber has written in the most gentlemanly terms, announcing that fact, have not taken the least notice of mr. micawbers communication. indeed i may be superstitious, said mrs. micawber, but it appears to me that mr. micawber is destined never to receive any answers whatever to the great majority of the communications he writes. i may augur, from the silence of my family, that they object to the resolution i have taken but i should not allow myself to be swerved from the path of duty, mr. copperfield, even by my papa and mama, were they still living.

i expressed my opinion that this was going in the right direction.

it may be a sacrifice, said mrs. micawber, to immure onesself in a cathedral town but surely, mr. copperfield, if it is a sacrifice in me, it is much more a sacrifice in a man of mr.

micawbers abilities.

oh you are going to a cathedral town said i.

mr. micawber, who had been helping us all, out of the washhandstand jug, replied to canterbury. in fact, my dear copperfield, i have entered into arrangements, by virtue of which i stand pledged and contracted to our friend heep, to assist and serve him in the capacity of  and to be  his confidential clerk.

i stared at mr. micawber, who greatly enjoyed my surprise.

i am bound to state to you, he said, with an official air, that the business habits, and the prudent suggestions, of mrs. micawber, have in a great measure conduced to this result. the gauntlet, to which mrs. micawber referred upon a former occasion, being thrown down in the form of an advertisement, was taken up by my friend heep, and led to a mutual recognition. of my friend heep, said mr. micawber, who is a man of remarkable shrewdness, i desire to speak with all possible respect. my friend heep has not fixed the positive remuneration at too high a figure, but he has made a great deal, in the way of extrication from the pressure of pecuniary difficulties, contingent on the value of my services and on the value of those services i pin my faith. such address and intelligence as i chance to possess, said mr. micawber, boastfully disparaging himself, with the old genteel air, will be devoted to my friend heeps service. i have already some acquaintance with the law  as a defendant on civil process  and i shall immediately apply myself to the commentaries of one of the most eminent and remarkable of our english jurists. i believe it is unnecessary to add that i allude to mr. justice blackstone.

these observations, and indeed the greater part of the observations made that evening, were interrupted by mrs. micawbers discovering that master micawber was sitting on his boots, or holding his head on with both arms as if he felt it loose, or accidentally kicking traddles under the table, or shuffling his feet over one another, or producing them at distances from himself apparently outrageous to nature, or lying sideways with his hair among the wineglasses, or developing his restlessness of limb in some other form incompatible with the general interests of society and by master micawbers receiving those discoveries in a resentful spirit. i sat all the while, amazed by mr. micawbers disclosure, and wondering what it meant until mrs. micawber resumed the thread of the discourse, and claimed my attention.

what i particularly request mr. micawber to be careful of, is, said mrs. micawber, that he does not, my dear mr. copperfield, in applying himself to this subordinate branch of the law, place it out of his power to rise, ultimately, to the top of the tree. i am convinced that mr. micawber, giving his mind to a profession so adapted to his fertile resources, and his flow of language, must distinguish himself. now, for example, mr. traddles, said mrs.

micawber, assuming a profound air, a judge, or even say a chancellor. does an individual place himself beyond the pale of those preferments by entering on such an office as mr. micawber has accepted

my dear, observed mr. micawber  but glancing inquisitively at traddles, too we have time enough before us, for the consideration of those questions.

micawber, she returned, no your mistake in life is, that you do not look forward far enough. you are bound, in justice to your family, if not to yourself, to take in at a comprehensive glance the extremest point in the horizon to which your abilities may lead you.

mr. micawber coughed, and drank his punch with an air of exceeding satisfaction  still glancing at traddles, as if he desired to have his opinion.

why, the plain state of the case, mrs. micawber, said traddles, mildly breaking the truth to her. i mean the real prosaic fact, you know 

just so, said mrs. micawber, my dear mr. traddles, i wish to be as prosaic and literal as possible on a subject of so much importance.

 is, said traddles, that this branch of the law, even if mr.

micawber were a regular solicitor 

exactly so, returned mrs. micawber. wilkins, you are squinting, and will not be able to get your eyes back.  has nothing, pursued traddles, to do with that. only a barrister is eligible for such preferments and mr. micawber could not be a barrister, without being entered at an inn of court as a student, for five years.

do i follow you said mrs. micawber, with her most affable air of business. do i understand, my dear mr. traddles, that, at the expiration of that period, mr. micawber would be eligible as a judge or chancellor

he would be eligible, returned traddles, with a strong emphasis on that word.

thank you, said mrs. micawber. that is quite sufficient. if such is the case, and mr. micawber forfeits no privilege by entering on these duties, my anxiety is set at rest. i speak, said mrs. micawber, as a female, necessarily but i have always been of opinion that mr. micawber possesses what i have heard my papa call, when i lived at home, the judicial mind and i hope mr.

micawber is now entering on a field where that mind will develop itself, and take a commanding station.

i quite believe that mr. micawber saw himself, in his judicial minds eye, on the woolsack. he passed his hand complacently over his bald head, and said with ostentatious resignation my dear, we will not anticipate the decrees of fortune. if i am reserved to wear a wig, i am at least prepared, externally, in allusion to his baldness, for that distinction. i do not, said mr. micawber, regret my hair, and i may have been deprived of it for a specific purpose. i cannot say. it is my intention, my dear copperfield, to educate my son for the church i will not deny that i should be happy, on his account, to attain to eminence.

for the church said i, still pondering, between whiles, on uriah heep.

yes, said mr. micawber. he has a remarkable headvoice, and will commence as a chorister. our residence at canterbury, and our local connexion, will, no doubt, enable him to take advantage of any vacancy that may arise in the cathedral corps.

on looking at master micawber again, i saw that he had a certain expression of face, as if his voice were behind his eyebrows where it presently appeared to be, on his singing us as an alternative between that and bed the woodpecker tapping. after many compliments on this performance, we fell into some general conversation and as i was too full of my desperate intentions to keep my altered circumstances to myself, i made them known to mr. and mrs. micawber. i cannot express how extremely delighted they both were, by the idea of my aunts being in difficulties and how comfortable and friendly it made them.

when we were nearly come to the last round of the punch, i addressed myself to traddles, and reminded him that we must not separate, without wishing our friends health, happiness, and success in their new career. i begged mr. micawber to fill us bumpers, and proposed the toast in due form shaking hands with him across the table, and kissing mrs. micawber, to commemorate that eventful occasion. traddles imitated me in the first particular, but did not consider himself a sufficiently old friend to venture on the second.

my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber, rising with one of his thumbs in each of his waistcoat pockets, the companion of my youth if i may be allowed the expression  and my esteemed friend traddles if i may be permitted to call him so  will allow me, on the part of mrs. micawber, myself, and our offspring, to thank them in the warmest and most uncompromising terms for their good wishes.

it may be expected that on the eve of a migration which will consign us to a perfectly new existence, mr. micawber spoke as if they were going five hundred thousand miles, i should offer a few valedictory remarks to two such friends as i see before me. but all that i have to say in this way, i have said. whatever station in society i may attain, through the medium of the learned profession of which i am about to become an unworthy member, i shall endeavour not to disgrace, and mrs. micawber will be safe to adorn. under the temporary pressure of pecuniary liabilities, contracted with a view to their immediate liquidation, but remaining unliquidated through a combination of circumstances, i have been under the necessity of assuming a garb from which my natural instincts recoil  i allude to spectacles  and possessing myself of a cognomen, to which i can establish no legitimate pretensions. all i have to say on that score is, that the cloud has passed from the dreary scene, and the god of day is once more high upon the mountain tops. on monday next, on the arrival of the four oclock afternoon coach at canterbury, my foot will be on my native heath  my name, micawber

mr. micawber resumed his seat on the close of these remarks, and drank two glasses of punch in grave succession. he then said with much solemnity one thing more i have to do, before this separation is complete, and that is to perform an act of justice. my friend mr. thomas traddles has, on two several occasions, put his name, if i may use a common expression, to bills of exchange for my accommodation.

on the first occasion mr. thomas traddles was left  let me say, in short, in the lurch. the fulfilment of the second has not yet arrived. the amount of the first obligation, here mr. micawber carefully referred to papers, was, i believe, twentythree, four, nine and a half, of the second, according to my entry of that transaction, eighteen, six, two. these sums, united, make a total, if my calculation is correct, amounting to fortyone, ten, eleven and a half. my friend copperfield will perhaps do me the favour to check that total

i did so and found it correct.

to leave this metropolis, said mr. micawber, and my friend mr.

thomas traddles, without acquitting myself of the pecuniary part of this obligation, would weigh upon my mind to an insupportable extent. i have, therefore, prepared for my friend mr. thomas traddles, and i now hold in my hand, a document, which accomplishes the desired object. i beg to hand to my friend mr. thomas traddles my i.o.u. for fortyone, ten, eleven and a half, and i am happy to recover my moral dignity, and to know that i can once more walk erect before my fellow man

with this introduction which greatly affected him, mr. micawber placed his i.o.u. in the hands of traddles, and said he wished him well in every relation of life. i am persuaded, not only that this was quite the same to mr. micawber as paying the money, but that traddles himself hardly knew the difference until he had had time to think about it.

mr. micawber walked so erect before his fellow man, on the strength of this virtuous action, that his chest looked half as broad again when he lighted us downstairs. we parted with great heartiness on both sides and when i had seen traddles to his own door, and was going home alone, i thought, among the other odd and contradictory things i mused upon, that, slippery as mr. micawber was, i was probably indebted to some compassionate recollection he retained of me as his boylodger, for never having been asked by him for money.

i certainly should not have had the moral courage to refuse it and i have no doubt he knew that to his credit be it written, quite as well as i did.



chapter 

a little cold water

my new life had lasted for more than a week, and i was stronger than ever in those tremendous practical resolutions that i felt the crisis required. i continued to walk extremely fast, and to have a general idea that i was getting on. i made it a rule to take as much out of myself as i possibly could, in my way of doing everything to which i applied my energies. i made a perfect victim of myself. i even entertained some idea of putting myself on a vegetable diet, vaguely conceiving that, in becoming a graminivorous animal, i should sacrifice to dora.

as yet, little dora was quite unconscious of my desperate firmness, otherwise than as my letters darkly shadowed it forth. but another saturday came, and on that saturday evening she was to be at miss millss and when mr. mills had gone to his whistclub telegraphed to me in the street, by a birdcage in the drawingroom middle window, i was to go there to tea.

by this time, we were quite settled down in buckingham street, where mr. dick continued his copying in a state of absolute felicity. my aunt had obtained a signal victory over mrs. crupp, by paying her off, throwing the first pitcher she planted on the stairs out of window, and protecting in person, up and down the staircase, a supernumerary whom she engaged from the outer world.

these vigorous measures struck such terror to the breast of mrs.

crupp, that she subsided into her own kitchen, under the impression that my aunt was mad. my aunt being supremely indifferent to mrs.

crupps opinion and everybody elses, and rather favouring than discouraging the idea, mrs. crupp, of late the bold, became within a few days so fainthearted, that rather than encounter my aunt upon the staircase, she would endeavour to hide her portly form behind doors  leaving visible, however, a wide margin of flannel petticoat  or would shrink into dark corners. this gave my aunt such unspeakable satisfaction, that i believe she took a delight in prowling up and down, with her bonnet insanely perched on the top of her head, at times when mrs. crupp was likely to be in the way.

my aunt, being uncommonly neat and ingenious, made so many little improvements in our domestic arrangements, that i seemed to be richer instead of poorer. among the rest, she converted the pantry into a dressingroom for me and purchased and embellished a bedstead for my occupation, which looked as like a bookcase in the daytime as a bedstead could. i was the object of her constant solicitude and my poor mother herself could not have loved me better, or studied more how to make me happy.

peggotty had considered herself highly privileged in being allowed to participate in these labours and, although she still retained something of her old sentiment of awe in reference to my aunt, had received so many marks of encouragement and confidence, that they were the best friends possible. but the time had now come i am speaking of the saturday when i was to take tea at miss millss when it was necessary for her to return home, and enter on the discharge of the duties she had undertaken in behalf of ham. so goodbye, barkis, said my aunt, and take care of yourself i am sure i never thought i could be sorry to lose you

i took peggotty to the coach office and saw her off. she cried at parting, and confided her brother to my friendship as ham had done.

we had heard nothing of him since he went away, that sunny afternoon.

and now, my own dear davy, said peggotty, if, while youre a prentice, you should want any money to spend or if, when youre out of your time, my dear, you should want any to set you up and you must do one or other, or both, my darling who has such a good right to ask leave to lend it you, as my sweet girls own old stupid me

i was not so savagely independent as to say anything in reply, but that if ever i borrowed money of anyone, i would borrow it of her.

next to accepting a large sum on the spot, i believe this gave peggotty more comfort than anything i could have done.

and, my dear whispered peggotty, tell the pretty little angel that i should so have liked to see her, only for a minute and tell her that before she marries my boy, ill come and make your house so beautiful for you, if youll let me

i declared that nobody else should touch it and this gave peggotty such delight that she went away in good spirits.

i fatigued myself as much as i possibly could in the commons all day, by a variety of devices, and at the appointed time in the evening repaired to mr. millss street. mr. mills, who was a terrible fellow to fall asleep after dinner, had not yet gone out, and there was no birdcage in the middle window.

he kept me waiting so long, that i fervently hoped the club would fine him for being late. at last he came out and then i saw my own dora hang up the birdcage, and peep into the balcony to look for me, and run in again when she saw i was there, while jip remained behind, to bark injuriously at an immense butchers dog in the street, who could have taken him like a pill.

dora came to the drawingroom door to meet me and jip came scrambling out, tumbling over his own growls, under the impression that i was a bandit and we all three went in, as happy and loving as could be. i soon carried desolation into the bosom of our joys  not that i meant to do it, but that i was so full of the subject  by asking dora, without the smallest preparation, if she could love a beggar

my pretty, little, startled dora her only association with the word was a yellow face and a nightcap, or a pair of crutches, or a wooden leg, or a dog with a decanterstand in his mouth, or something of that kind and she stared at me with the most delightful wonder.

how can you ask me anything so foolish pouted dora. love a beggar

dora, my own dearest said i. i am a beggar

how can you be such a silly thing, replied dora, slapping my hand, as to sit there, telling such stories ill make jip bite you

her childish way was the most delicious way in the world to me, but it was necessary to be explicit, and i solemnly repeated dora, my own life, i am your ruined david

i declare ill make jip bite you said dora, shaking her curls, if you are so ridiculous.

but i looked so serious, that dora left off shaking her curls, and laid her trembling little hand upon my shoulder, and first looked scared and anxious, then began to cry. that was dreadful. i fell upon my knees before the sofa, caressing her, and imploring her not to rend my heart but, for some time, poor little dora did nothing but exclaim oh dear oh dear and oh, she was so frightened and where was julia mills and oh, take her to julia mills, and go away, please until i was almost beside myself.

at last, after an agony of supplication and protestation, i got dora to look at me, with a horrified expression of face, which i gradually soothed until it was only loving, and her soft, pretty cheek was lying against mine. then i told her, with my arms clasped round her, how i loved her, so dearly, and so dearly how i felt it right to offer to release her from her engagement, because now i was poor how i never could bear it, or recover it, if i lost her how i had no fears of poverty, if she had none, my arm being nerved and my heart inspired by her how i was already working with a courage such as none but lovers knew how i had begun to be practical, and look into the future how a crust well earned was sweeter far than a feast inherited and much more to the same purpose, which i delivered in a burst of passionate eloquence quite surprising to myself, though i had been thinking about it, day and night, ever since my aunt had astonished me.

is your heart mine still, dear dora said i, rapturously, for i knew by her clinging to me that it was.

oh, yes cried dora. oh, yes, its all yours. oh, dont be dreadful

i dreadful to dora dont talk about being poor, and working hard said dora, nestling closer to me. oh, dont, dont

my dearest love, said i, the crust wellearned 

oh, yes but i dont want to hear any more about crusts said dora. and jip must have a muttonchop every day at twelve, or hell die.

i was charmed with her childish, winning way. i fondly explained to dora that jip should have his muttonchop with his accustomed regularity. i drew a picture of our frugal home, made independent by my labour  sketching in the little house i had seen at highgate, and my aunt in her room upstairs.

i am not dreadful now, dora said i, tenderly.

oh, no, no cried dora. but i hope your aunt will keep in her own room a good deal. and i hope shes not a scolding old thing

if it were possible for me to love dora more than ever, i am sure i did. but i felt she was a little impracticable. it damped my newborn ardour, to find that ardour so difficult of communication to her. i made another trial. when she was quite herself again, and was curling jips ears, as he lay upon her lap, i became grave, and said my own may i mention something

oh, please dont be practical said dora, coaxingly. because it frightens me so

sweetheart i returned there is nothing to alarm you in all this. i want you to think of it quite differently. i want to make it nerve you, and inspire you, dora

oh, but thats so shocking cried dora.

my love, no. perseverance and strength of character will enable us to bear much worse things.

but i havent got any strength at all, said dora, shaking her curls. have i, jip oh, do kiss jip, and be agreeable

it was impossible to resist kissing jip, when she held him up to me for that purpose, putting her own bright, rosy little mouth into kissing form, as she directed the operation, which she insisted should be performed symmetrically, on the centre of his nose. i did as she bade me  rewarding myself afterwards for my obedience  and she charmed me out of my graver character for i dont know how long.

but, dora, my beloved said i, at last resuming it i was going to mention something.

the judge of the prerogative court might have fallen in love with her, to see her fold her little hands and hold them up, begging and praying me not to be dreadful any more.

indeed i am not going to be, my darling i assured her. but, dora, my love, if you will sometimes think,  not despondingly, you know far from that  but if you will sometimes think  just to encourage yourself  that you are engaged to a poor man 

dont, dont pray dont cried dora. its so very dreadful

my soul, not at all said i, cheerfully. if you will sometimes think of that, and look about now and then at your papas housekeeping, and endeavour to acquire a little habit  of accounts, for instance 

poor little dora received this suggestion with something that was half a sob and half a scream.

 it would be so useful to us afterwards, i went on. and if you would promise me to read a little  a little cookery book that i would send you, it would be so excellent for both of us. for our path in life, my dora, said i, warming with the subject, is stony and rugged now, and it rests with us to smooth it. we must fight our way onward. we must be brave. there are obstacles to be met, and we must meet, and crush them

i was going on at a great rate, with a clenched hand, and a most enthusiastic countenance but it was quite unnecessary to proceed.

i had said enough. i had done it again. oh, she was so frightened oh, where was julia mills oh, take her to julia mills, and go away, please so that, in short, i was quite distracted, and raved about the drawingroom.

i thought i had killed her, this time. i sprinkled water on her face. i went down on my knees. i plucked at my hair. i denounced myself as a remorseless brute and a ruthless beast. i implored her forgiveness. i besought her to look up. i ravaged miss millss workbox for a smellingbottle, and in my agony of mind applied an ivory needlecase instead, and dropped all the needles over dora.

i shook my fists at jip, who was as frantic as myself. i did every wild extravagance that could be done, and was a long way beyond the end of my wits when miss mills came into the room.

who has done this exclaimed miss mills, succouring her friend.

i replied, i, miss mills i have done it behold the destroyer  or words to that effect  and hid my face from the light, in the sofa cushion.

at first miss mills thought it was a quarrel, and that we were verging on the desert of sahara but she soon found out how matters stood, for my dear affectionate little dora, embracing her, began exclaiming that i was a poor labourer and then cried for me, and embraced me, and asked me would i let her give me all her money to keep, and then fell on miss millss neck, sobbing as if her tender heart were broken.

miss mills must have been born to be a blessing to us. she ascertained from me in a few words what it was all about, comforted dora, and gradually convinced her that i was not a labourer  from my manner of stating the case i believe dora concluded that i was a navigator, and went balancing myself up and down a plank all day with a wheelbarrow  and so brought us together in peace. when we were quite composed, and dora had gone upstairs to put some rosewater to her eyes, miss mills rang for tea. in the ensuing interval, i told miss mills that she was evermore my friend, and that my heart must cease to vibrate ere i could forget her sympathy.

i then expounded to miss mills what i had endeavoured, so very unsuccessfully, to expound to dora. miss mills replied, on general principles, that the cottage of content was better than the palace of cold splendour, and that where love was, all was.

i said to miss mills that this was very true, and who should know it better than i, who loved dora with a love that never mortal had experienced yet but on miss mills observing, with despondency, that it were well indeed for some hearts if this were so, i explained that i begged leave to restrict the observation to mortals of the masculine gender.

i then put it to miss mills, to say whether she considered that there was or was not any practical merit in the suggestion i had been anxious to make, concerning the accounts, the housekeeping, and the cookery book

miss mills, after some consideration, thus replied mr. copperfield, i will be plain with you. mental suffering and trial supply, in some natures, the place of years, and i will be as plain with you as if i were a lady abbess. no. the suggestion is not appropriate to our dora. our dearest dora is a favourite child of nature. she is a thing of light, and airiness, and joy. i am free to confess that if it could be done, it might be well, but 

and miss mills shook her head.

i was encouraged by this closing admission on the part of miss mills to ask her, whether, for doras sake, if she had any opportunity of luring her attention to such preparations for an earnest life, she would avail herself of it miss mills replied in the affirmative so readily, that i further asked her if she would take charge of the cookery book and, if she ever could insinuate it upon doras acceptance, without frightening her, undertake to do me that crowning service. miss mills accepted this trust, too but was not sanguine.

and dora returned, looking such a lovely little creature, that i really doubted whether she ought to be troubled with anything so ordinary. and she loved me so much, and was so captivating particularly when she made jip stand on his hind legs for toast, and when she pretended to hold that nose of his against the hot teapot for punishment because he wouldnt, that i felt like a sort of monster who had got into a fairys bower, when i thought of having frightened her, and made her cry.

after tea we had the guitar and dora sang those same dear old french songs about the impossibility of ever on any account leaving off dancing, la ra la, la ra la, until i felt a much greater monster than before.

we had only one check to our pleasure, and that happened a little while before i took my leave, when, miss mills chancing to make some allusion to tomorrow morning, i unluckily let out that, being obliged to exert myself now, i got up at five oclock. whether dora had any idea that i was a private watchman, i am unable to say but it made a great impression on her, and she neither played nor sang any more.

it was still on her mind when i bade her adieu and she said to me, in her pretty coaxing way  as if i were a doll, i used to think now dont get up at five oclock, you naughty boy. its so nonsensical

my love, said i, i have work to do.

but dont do it returned dora. why should you

it was impossible to say to that sweet little surprised face, otherwise than lightly and playfully, that we must work to live.

oh how ridiculous cried dora.

how shall we live without, dora said i.

how any how said dora.

she seemed to think she had quite settled the question, and gave me such a triumphant little kiss, direct from her innocent heart, that i would hardly have put her out of conceit with her answer, for a fortune.

well i loved her, and i went on loving her, most absorbingly, entirely, and completely. but going on, too, working pretty hard, and busily keeping redhot all the irons i now had in the fire, i would sit sometimes of a night, opposite my aunt, thinking how i had frightened dora that time, and how i could best make my way with a guitarcase through the forest of difficulty, until i used to fancy that my head was turning quite grey.



chapter 

a dissolution of partnership

i did not allow my resolution, with respect to the parliamentary debates, to cool. it was one of the irons i began to heat immediately, and one of the irons i kept hot, and hammered at, with a perseverance i may honestly admire. i bought an approved scheme of the noble art and mystery of stenography which cost me ten and sixpence and plunged into a sea of perplexity that brought me, in a few weeks, to the confines of distraction. the changes that were rung upon dots, which in such a position meant such a thing, and in such another position something else, entirely different the wonderful vagaries that were played by circles the unaccountable consequences that resulted from marks like flies legs the tremendous effects of a curve in a wrong place not only troubled my waking hours, but reappeared before me in my sleep. when i had groped my way, blindly, through these difficulties, and had mastered the alphabet, which was an egyptian temple in itself, there then appeared a procession of new horrors, called arbitrary characters the most despotic characters i have ever known who insisted, for instance, that a thing like the beginning of a cobweb, meant expectation, and that a penandink skyrocket, stood for disadvantageous. when i had fixed these wretches in my mind, i found that they had driven everything else out of it then, beginning again, i forgot them while i was picking them up, i dropped the other fragments of the system in short, it was almost heartbreaking.

it might have been quite heartbreaking, but for dora, who was the stay and anchor of my tempestdriven bark. every scratch in the scheme was a gnarled oak in the forest of difficulty, and i went on cutting them down, one after another, with such vigour, that in three or four months i was in a condition to make an experiment on one of our crack speakers in the commons. shall i ever forget how the crack speaker walked off from me before i began, and left my imbecile pencil staggering about the paper as if it were in a fit

this would not do, it was quite clear. i was flying too high, and should never get on, so. i resorted to traddles for advice who suggested that he should dictate speeches to me, at a pace, and with occasional stoppages, adapted to my weakness. very grateful for this friendly aid, i accepted the proposal and night after night, almost every night, for a long time, we had a sort of private parliament in buckingham street, after i came home from the doctors.

i should like to see such a parliament anywhere else my aunt and mr. dick represented the government or the opposition as the case might be, and traddles, with the assistance of enfields speakers, or a volume of parliamentary orations, thundered astonishing invectives against them. standing by the table, with his finger in the page to keep the place, and his right arm flourishing above his head, traddles, as mr. pitt, mr. fox, mr. sheridan, mr. burke, lord castlereagh, viscount sidmouth, or mr. canning, would work himself into the most violent heats, and deliver the most withering denunciations of the profligacy and corruption of my aunt and mr.

dick while i used to sit, at a little distance, with my notebook on my knee, fagging after him with all my might and main. the inconsistency and recklessness of traddles were not to be exceeded by any real politician. he was for any description of policy, in the compass of a week and nailed all sorts of colours to every denomination of mast. my aunt, looking very like an immovable chancellor of the exchequer, would occasionally throw in an interruption or two, as hear or no or oh when the text seemed to require it which was always a signal to mr. dick a perfect country gentleman to follow lustily with the same cry.

but mr. dick got taxed with such things in the course of his parliamentary career, and was made responsible for such awful consequences, that he became uncomfortable in his mind sometimes.

i believe he actually began to be afraid he really had been doing something, tending to the annihilation of the british constitution, and the ruin of the country.

often and often we pursued these debates until the clock pointed to midnight, and the candles were burning down. the result of so much good practice was, that by and by i began to keep pace with traddles pretty well, and should have been quite triumphant if i had had the least idea what my notes were about. but, as to reading them after i had got them, i might as well have copied the chinese inscriptions of an immense collection of teachests, or the golden characters on all the great red and green bottles in the chemists shops

there was nothing for it, but to turn back and begin all over again. it was very hard, but i turned back, though with a heavy heart, and began laboriously and methodically to plod over the same tedious ground at a snails pace stopping to examine minutely every speck in the way, on all sides, and making the most desperate efforts to know these elusive characters by sight wherever i met them. i was always punctual at the office at the doctors too and i really did work, as the common expression is, like a carthorse.

one day, when i went to the commons as usual, i found mr. spenlow in the doorway looking extremely grave, and talking to himself. as he was in the habit of complaining of pains in his head  he had naturally a short throat, and i do seriously believe he overstarched himself  i was at first alarmed by the idea that he was not quite right in that direction but he soon relieved my uneasiness.

instead of returning my good morning with his usual affability, he looked at me in a distant, ceremonious manner, and coldly requested me to accompany him to a certain coffeehouse, which, in those days, had a door opening into the commons, just within the little archway in st. pauls churchyard. i complied, in a very uncomfortable state, and with a warm shooting all over me, as if my apprehensions were breaking out into buds. when i allowed him to go on a little before, on account of the narrowness of the way, i observed that he carried his head with a lofty air that was particularly unpromising and my mind misgave me that he had found out about my darling dora.

if i had not guessed this, on the way to the coffeehouse, i could hardly have failed to know what was the matter when i followed him into an upstairs room, and found miss murdstone there, supported by a background of sideboard, on which were several inverted tumblers sustaining lemons, and two of those extraordinary boxes, all corners and flutings, for sticking knives and forks in, which, happily for mankind, are now obsolete.

miss murdstone gave me her chilly fingernails, and sat severely rigid. mr. spenlow shut the door, motioned me to a chair, and stood on the hearthrug in front of the fireplace.

have the goodness to show mr. copperfield, said mr. spenlow, what you have in your reticule, miss murdstone.

i believe it was the old identical steelclasped reticule of my childhood, that shut up like a bite. compressing her lips, in sympathy with the snap, miss murdstone opened it  opening her mouth a little at the same time  and produced my last letter to dora, teeming with expressions of devoted affection.

i believe that is your writing, mr. copperfield said mr.

spenlow.

i was very hot, and the voice i heard was very unlike mine, when i said, it is, sir

if i am not mistaken, said mr. spenlow, as miss murdstone brought a parcel of letters out of her reticule, tied round with the dearest bit of blue ribbon, those are also from your pen, mr.

copperfield

i took them from her with a most desolate sensation and, glancing at such phrases at the top, as my ever dearest and own dora, my best beloved angel, my blessed one for ever, and the like, blushed deeply, and inclined my head.

no, thank you said mr. spenlow, coldly, as i mechanically offered them back to him. i will not deprive you of them. miss murdstone, be so good as to proceed

that gentle creature, after a moments thoughtful survey of the carpet, delivered herself with much dry unction as follows.

i must confess to having entertained my suspicions of miss spenlow, in reference to david copperfield, for some time. i observed miss spenlow and david copperfield, when they first met and the impression made upon me then was not agreeable. the depravity of the human heart is such 

you will oblige me, maam, interrupted mr. spenlow, by confining yourself to facts.

miss murdstone cast down her eyes, shook her head as if protesting against this unseemly interruption, and with frowning dignity resumed since i am to confine myself to facts, i will state them as dryly as i can. perhaps that will be considered an acceptable course of proceeding. i have already said, sir, that i have had my suspicions of miss spenlow, in reference to david copperfield, for some time. i have frequently endeavoured to find decisive corroboration of those suspicions, but without effect. i have therefore forborne to mention them to miss spenlows father looking severely at him knowing how little disposition there usually is in such cases, to acknowledge the conscientious discharge of duty.

mr. spenlow seemed quite cowed by the gentlemanly sternness of miss murdstones manner, and deprecated her severity with a conciliatory little wave of his hand.

on my return to norwood, after the period of absence occasioned by my brothers marriage, pursued miss murdstone in a disdainful voice, and on the return of miss spenlow from her visit to her friend miss mills, i imagined that the manner of miss spenlow gave me greater occasion for suspicion than before. therefore i watched miss spenlow closely.

dear, tender little dora, so unconscious of this dragons eye still, resumed miss murdstone, i found no proof until last night. it appeared to me that miss spenlow received too many letters from her friend miss mills but miss mills being her friend with her fathers full concurrence, another telling blow at mr.

spenlow, it was not for me to interfere. if i may not be permitted to allude to the natural depravity of the human heart, at least i may  i must  be permitted, so far to refer to misplaced confidence.

mr. spenlow apologetically murmured his assent.

last evening after tea, pursued miss murdstone, i observed the little dog starting, rolling, and growling about the drawingroom, worrying something. i said to miss spenlow, dora, what is that the dog has in his mouth its paper. miss spenlow immediately put her hand to her frock, gave a sudden cry, and ran to the dog.

i interposed, and said, dora, my love, you must permit me. 

oh jip, miserable spaniel, this wretchedness, then, was your work miss spenlow endeavoured, said miss murdstone, to bribe me with kisses, workboxes, and small articles of jewellery  that, of course, i pass over. the little dog retreated under the sofa on my approaching him, and was with great difficulty dislodged by the fireirons. even when dislodged, he still kept the letter in his mouth and on my endeavouring to take it from him, at the imminent risk of being bitten, he kept it between his teeth so pertinaciously as to suffer himself to be held suspended in the air by means of the document. at length i obtained possession of it.

after perusing it, i taxed miss spenlow with having many such letters in her possession and ultimately obtained from her the packet which is now in david copperfields hand.

here she ceased and snapping her reticule again, and shutting her mouth, looked as if she might be broken, but could never be bent.

you have heard miss murdstone, said mr. spenlow, turning to me.

i beg to ask, mr. copperfield, if you have anything to say in reply

the picture i had before me, of the beautiful little treasure of my heart, sobbing and crying all night  of her being alone, frightened, and wretched, then  of her having so piteously begged and prayed that stonyhearted woman to forgive her  of her having vainly offered her those kisses, workboxes, and trinkets  of her being in such grievous distress, and all for me  very much impaired the little dignity i had been able to muster. i am afraid i was in a tremulous state for a minute or so, though i did my best to disguise it.

there is nothing i can say, sir, i returned, except that all the blame is mine. dora 

miss spenlow, if you please, said her father, majestically.

 was induced and persuaded by me, i went on, swallowing that colder designation, to consent to this concealment, and i bitterly regret it.

you are very much to blame, sir, said mr. spenlow, walking to and fro upon the hearthrug, and emphasizing what he said with his whole body instead of his head, on account of the stiffness of his cravat and spine. you have done a stealthy and unbecoming action, mr. copperfield. when i take a gentleman to my house, no matter whether he is nineteen, twentynine, or ninety, i take him there in a spirit of confidence. if he abuses my confidence, he commits a dishonourable action, mr. copperfield.

i feel it, sir, i assure you, i returned. but i never thought so, before. sincerely, honestly, indeed, mr. spenlow, i never thought so, before. i love miss spenlow to that extent 

pooh nonsense said mr. spenlow, reddening. pray dont tell me to my face that you love my daughter, mr. copperfield

could i defend my conduct if i did not, sir i returned, with all humility.

can you defend your conduct if you do, sir said mr. spenlow, stopping short upon the hearthrug. have you considered your years, and my daughters years, mr. copperfield have you considered what it is to undermine the confidence that should subsist between my daughter and myself have you considered my daughters station in life, the projects i may contemplate for her advancement, the testamentary intentions i may have with reference to her have you considered anything, mr. copperfield

very little, sir, i am afraid i answered, speaking to him as respectfully and sorrowfully as i felt but pray believe me, i have considered my own worldly position. when i explained it to you, we were already engaged 

i beg, said mr. spenlow, more like punch than i had ever seen him, as he energetically struck one hand upon the other  i could not help noticing that even in my despair that you will not talk to me of engagements, mr. copperfield

the otherwise immovable miss murdstone laughed contemptuously in one short syllable.

when i explained my altered position to you, sir, i began again, substituting a new form of expression for what was so unpalatable to him, this concealment, into which i am so unhappy as to have led miss spenlow, had begun. since i have been in that altered position, i have strained every nerve, i have exerted every energy, to improve it. i am sure i shall improve it in time. will you grant me time  any length of time we are both so young, sir, 

you are right, interrupted mr. spenlow, nodding his head a great many times, and frowning very much, you are both very young. its all nonsense. let there be an end of the nonsense. take away those letters, and throw them in the fire. give me miss spenlows letters to throw in the fire and although our future intercourse must, you are aware, be restricted to the commons here, we will agree to make no further mention of the past. come, mr.

copperfield, you dont want sense and this is the sensible course.

no. i couldnt think of agreeing to it. i was very sorry, but there was a higher consideration than sense. love was above all earthly considerations, and i loved dora to idolatry, and dora loved me. i didnt exactly say so i softened it down as much as i could but i implied it, and i was resolute upon it. i dont think i made myself very ridiculous, but i know i was resolute.

very well, mr. copperfield, said mr. spenlow, i must try my influence with my daughter.

miss murdstone, by an expressive sound, a long drawn respiration, which was neither a sigh nor a moan, but was like both, gave it as her opinion that he should have done this at first.

i must try, said mr. spenlow, confirmed by this support, my influence with my daughter. do you decline to take those letters, mr. copperfield for i had laid them on the table.

yes. i told him i hoped he would not think it wrong, but i couldnt possibly take them from miss murdstone.

nor from me said mr. spenlow.

no, i replied with the profoundest respect nor from him.

very well said mr. spenlow.

a silence succeeding, i was undecided whether to go or stay. at length i was moving quietly towards the door, with the intention of saying that perhaps i should consult his feelings best by withdrawing when he said, with his hands in his coat pockets, into which it was as much as he could do to get them and with what i should call, upon the whole, a decidedly pious air you are probably aware, mr. copperfield, that i am not altogether destitute of worldly possessions, and that my daughter is my nearest and dearest relative

i hurriedly made him a reply to the effect, that i hoped the error into which i had been betrayed by the desperate nature of my love, did not induce him to think me mercenary too i dont allude to the matter in that light, said mr. spenlow.

it would be better for yourself, and all of us, if you were mercenary, mr. copperfield  i mean, if you were more discreet and less influenced by all this youthful nonsense. no. i merely say, with quite another view, you are probably aware i have some property to bequeath to my child

i certainly supposed so.

and you can hardly think, said mr. spenlow, having experience of what we see, in the commons here, every day, of the various unaccountable and negligent proceedings of men, in respect of their testamentary arrangements  of all subjects, the one on which perhaps the strangest revelations of human inconsistency are to be met with  but that mine are made

i inclined my head in acquiescence.

i should not allow, said mr. spenlow, with an evident increase of pious sentiment, and slowly shaking his head as he poised himself upon his toes and heels alternately, my suitable provision for my child to be influenced by a piece of youthful folly like the present. it is mere folly. mere nonsense. in a little while, it will weigh lighter than any feather. but i might  i might  if this silly business were not completely relinquished altogether, be induced in some anxious moment to guard her from, and surround her with protections against, the consequences of any foolish step in the way of marriage. now, mr. copperfield, i hope that you will not render it necessary for me to open, even for a quarter of an hour, that closed page in the book of life, and unsettle, even for a quarter of an hour, grave affairs long since composed.

there was a serenity, a tranquillity, a calm sunset air about him, which quite affected me. he was so peaceful and resigned  clearly had his affairs in such perfect train, and so systematically wound up  that he was a man to feel touched in the contemplation of. i really think i saw tears rise to his eyes, from the depth of his own feeling of all this.

but what could i do i could not deny dora and my own heart. when he told me i had better take a week to consider of what he had said, how could i say i wouldnt take a week, yet how could i fail to know that no amount of weeks could influence such love as mine in the meantime, confer with miss trotwood, or with any person with any knowledge of life, said mr. spenlow, adjusting his cravat with both hands. take a week, mr. copperfield.

i submitted and, with a countenance as expressive as i was able to make it of dejected and despairing constancy, came out of the room.

miss murdstones heavy eyebrows followed me to the door  i say her eyebrows rather than her eyes, because they were much more important in her face  and she looked so exactly as she used to look, at about that hour of the morning, in our parlour at blunderstone, that i could have fancied i had been breaking down in my lessons again, and that the dead weight on my mind was that horrible old spellingbook, with oval woodcuts, shaped, to my youthful fancy, like the glasses out of spectacles.

when i got to the office, and, shutting out old tiffey and the rest of them with my hands, sat at my desk, in my own particular nook, thinking of this earthquake that had taken place so unexpectedly, and in the bitterness of my spirit cursing jip, i fell into such a state of torment about dora, that i wonder i did not take up my hat and rush insanely to norwood. the idea of their frightening her, and making her cry, and of my not being there to comfort her, was so excruciating, that it impelled me to write a wild letter to mr.

spenlow, beseeching him not to visit upon her the consequences of my awful destiny. i implored him to spare her gentle nature  not to crush a fragile flower  and addressed him generally, to the best of my remembrance, as if, instead of being her father, he had been an ogre, or the dragon of wantley. this letter i sealed and laid upon his desk before he returned and when he came in, i saw him, through the halfopened door of his room, take it up and read it.

he said nothing about it all the morning but before he went away in the afternoon he called me in, and told me that i need not make myself at all uneasy about his daughters happiness. he had assured her, he said, that it was all nonsense and he had nothing more to say to her. he believed he was an indulgent father as indeed he was, and i might spare myself any solicitude on her account.

you may make it necessary, if you are foolish or obstinate, mr.

copperfield, he observed, for me to send my daughter abroad again, for a term but i have a better opinion of you. i hope you will be wiser than that, in a few days. as to miss murdstone, for i had alluded to her in the letter, i respect that ladys vigilance, and feel obliged to her but she has strict charge to avoid the subject. all i desire, mr. copperfield, is, that it should be forgotten. all you have got to do, mr. copperfield, is to forget it.

all in the note i wrote to miss mills, i bitterly quoted this sentiment. all i had to do, i said, with gloomy sarcasm, was to forget dora. that was all, and what was that i entreated miss mills to see me, that evening. if it could not be done with mr.

millss sanction and concurrence, i besought a clandestine interview in the back kitchen where the mangle was. i informed her that my reason was tottering on its throne, and only she, miss mills, could prevent its being deposed. i signed myself, hers distractedly and i couldnt help feeling, while i read this composition over, before sending it by a porter, that it was something in the style of mr. micawber.

however, i sent it. at night i repaired to miss millss street, and walked up and down, until i was stealthily fetched in by miss millss maid, and taken the area way to the back kitchen. i have since seen reason to believe that there was nothing on earth to prevent my going in at the front door, and being shown up into the drawingroom, except miss millss love of the romantic and mysterious.

in the back kitchen, i raved as became me. i went there, i suppose, to make a fool of myself, and i am quite sure i did it.

miss mills had received a hasty note from dora, telling her that all was discovered, and saying. oh pray come to me, julia, do, do but miss mills, mistrusting the acceptability of her presence to the higher powers, had not yet gone and we were all benighted in the desert of sahara.

miss mills had a wonderful flow of words, and liked to pour them out. i could not help feeling, though she mingled her tears with mine, that she had a dreadful luxury in our afflictions. she petted them, as i may say, and made the most of them. a deep gulf, she observed, had opened between dora and me, and love could only span it with its rainbow. love must suffer in this stern world it ever had been so, it ever would be so. no matter, miss mills remarked. hearts confined by cobwebs would burst at last, and then love was avenged.

this was small consolation, but miss mills wouldnt encourage fallacious hopes. she made me much more wretched than i was before, and i felt and told her with the deepest gratitude that she was indeed a friend. we resolved that she should go to dora the first thing in the morning, and find some means of assuring her, either by looks or words, of my devotion and misery. we parted, overwhelmed with grief and i think miss mills enjoyed herself completely.

i confided all to my aunt when i got home and in spite of all she could say to me, went to bed despairing. i got up despairing, and went out despairing. it was saturday morning, and i went straight to the commons.

i was surprised, when i came within sight of our officedoor, to see the ticketporters standing outside talking together, and some halfdozen stragglers gazing at the windows which were shut up. i quickened my pace, and, passing among them, wondering at their looks, went hurriedly in.

the clerks were there, but nobody was doing anything. old tiffey, for the first time in his life i should think, was sitting on somebody elses stool, and had not hung up his hat.

this is a dreadful calamity, mr. copperfield, said he, as i entered.

what is i exclaimed. whats the matter

dont you know cried tiffey, and all the rest of them, coming round me.

no said i, looking from face to face.

mr. spenlow, said tiffey.

what about him

dead

i thought it was the office reeling, and not i, as one of the clerks caught hold of me. they sat me down in a chair, untied my neckcloth, and brought me some water. i have no idea whether this took any time.

dead said i.

he dined in town yesterday, and drove down in the phaeton by himself, said tiffey, having sent his own groom home by the coach, as he sometimes did, you know 

well

the phaeton went home without him. the horses stopped at the stablegate. the man went out with a lantern. nobody in the carriage.

had they run away

they were not hot, said tiffey, putting on his glasses no hotter, i understand, than they would have been, going down at the usual pace. the reins were broken, but they had been dragging on the ground. the house was roused up directly, and three of them went out along the road. they found him a mile off.

more than a mile off, mr. tiffey, interposed a junior.

was it i believe you are right, said tiffey,  more than a mile off  not far from the church  lying partly on the roadside, and partly on the path, upon his face. whether he fell out in a fit, or got out, feeling ill before the fit came on  or even whether he was quite dead then, though there is no doubt he was quite insensible  no one appears to know. if he breathed, certainly he never spoke. medical assistance was got as soon as possible, but it was quite useless.

i cannot describe the state of mind into which i was thrown by this intelligence. the shock of such an event happening so suddenly, and happening to one with whom i had been in any respect at variance  the appalling vacancy in the room he had occupied so lately, where his chair and table seemed to wait for him, and his handwriting of yesterday was like a ghost  the in definable impossibility of separating him from the place, and feeling, when the door opened, as if he might come in  the lazy hush and rest there was in the office, and the insatiable relish with which our people talked about it, and other people came in and out all day, and gorged themselves with the subject  this is easily intelligible to anyone. what i cannot describe is, how, in the innermost recesses of my own heart, i had a lurking jealousy even of death. how i felt as if its might would push me from my ground in doras thoughts. how i was, in a grudging way i have no words for, envious of her grief. how it made me restless to think of her weeping to others, or being consoled by others. how i had a grasping, avaricious wish to shut out everybody from her but myself, and to be all in all to her, at that unseasonable time of all times.

in the trouble of this state of mind  not exclusively my own, i hope, but known to others  i went down to norwood that night and finding from one of the servants, when i made my inquiries at the door, that miss mills was there, got my aunt to direct a letter to her, which i wrote. i deplored the untimely death of mr. spenlow, most sincerely, and shed tears in doing so. i entreated her to tell dora, if dora were in a state to hear it, that he had spoken to me with the utmost kindness and consideration and had coupled nothing but tenderness, not a single or reproachful word, with her name. i know i did this selfishly, to have my name brought before her but i tried to believe it was an act of justice to his memory.

perhaps i did believe it.

my aunt received a few lines next day in reply addressed, outside, to her within, to me. dora was overcome by grief and when her friend had asked her should she send her love to me, had only cried, as she was always crying, oh, dear papa oh, poor papa

but she had not said no, and that i made the most of.

mr. jorkins, who had been at norwood since the occurrence, came to the office a few days afterwards. he and tiffey were closeted together for some few moments, and then tiffey looked out at the door and beckoned me in.

oh said mr. jorkins. mr. tiffey and myself, mr. copperfield, are about to examine the desks, the drawers, and other such repositories of the deceased, with the view of sealing up his private papers, and searching for a will. there is no trace of any, elsewhere. it may be as well for you to assist us, if you please.

i had been in agony to obtain some knowledge of the circumstances in which my dora would be placed  as, in whose guardianship, and so forth  and this was something towards it. we began the search at once mr. jorkins unlocking the drawers and desks, and we all taking out the papers. the officepapers we placed on one side, and the private papers which were not numerous on the other. we were very grave and when we came to a stray seal, or pencilcase, or ring, or any little article of that kind which we associated personally with him, we spoke very low.

we had sealed up several packets and were still going on dustily and quietly, when mr. jorkins said to us, applying exactly the same words to his late partner as his late partner had applied to him mr. spenlow was very difficult to move from the beaten track. you know what he was i am disposed to think he had made no will.

oh, i know he had said i.

they both stopped and looked at me.

on the very day when i last saw him, said i, he told me that he had, and that his affairs were long since settled.

mr. jorkins and old tiffey shook their heads with one accord.

that looks unpromising, said tiffey.

very unpromising, said mr. jorkins.

surely you dont doubt  i began.

my good mr. copperfield said tiffey, laying his hand upon my arm, and shutting up both his eyes as he shook his head if you had been in the commons as long as i have, you would know that there is no subject on which men are so inconsistent, and so little to be trusted.

why, bless my soul, he made that very remark i replied persistently.

i should call that almost final, observed tiffey. my opinion is  no will.

it appeared a wonderful thing to me, but it turned out that there was no will. he had never so much as thought of making one, so far as his papers afforded any evidence for there was no kind of hint, sketch, or memorandum, of any testamentary intention whatever.

what was scarcely less astonishing to me, was, that his affairs were in a most disordered state. it was extremely difficult, i heard, to make out what he owed, or what he had paid, or of what he died possessed. it was considered likely that for years he could have had no clear opinion on these subjects himself. by little and little it came out, that, in the competition on all points of appearance and gentility then running high in the commons, he had spent more than his professional income, which was not a very large one, and had reduced his private means, if they ever had been great which was exceedingly doubtful, to a very low ebb indeed. there was a sale of the furniture and lease, at norwood and tiffey told me, little thinking how interested i was in the story, that, paying all the just debts of the deceased, and deducting his share of outstanding bad and doubtful debts due to the firm, he wouldnt give a thousand pounds for all the assets remaining.

this was at the expiration of about six weeks. i had suffered tortures all the time and thought i really must have laid violent hands upon myself, when miss mills still reported to me, that my brokenhearted little dora would say nothing, when i was mentioned, but oh, poor papa oh, dear papa also, that she had no other relations than two aunts, maiden sisters of mr. spenlow, who lived at putney, and who had not held any other than chance communication with their brother for many years. not that they had ever quarrelled miss mills informed me but that having been, on the occasion of doras christening, invited to tea, when they considered themselves privileged to be invited to dinner, they had expressed their opinion in writing, that it was better for the happiness of all parties that they should stay away. since which they had gone their road, and their brother had gone his.

these two ladies now emerged from their retirement, and proposed to take dora to live at putney. dora, clinging to them both, and weeping, exclaimed, o yes, aunts please take julia mills and me and jip to putney so they went, very soon after the funeral.

how i found time to haunt putney, i am sure i dont know but i contrived, by some means or other, to prowl about the neighbourhood pretty often. miss mills, for the more exact discharge of the duties of friendship, kept a journal and she used to meet me sometimes, on the common, and read it, or if she had not time to do that lend it to me. how i treasured up the entries, of which i subjoin a sample  monday. my sweet d. still much depressed. headache. called attention to j. as being beautifully sleek. d. fondled j.

associations thus awakened, opened floodgates of sorrow. rush of grief admitted. are tears the dewdrops of the heart j. m. tuesday. d. weak and nervous. beautiful in pallor. do we not remark this in moon likewise j. m. d., j. m. and j. took airing in carriage. j. looking out of window, and barking violently at dustman, occasioned smile to overspread features of d. of such slight links is chain of life composed j. m. wednesday. d. comparatively cheerful. sang to her, as congenial melody, evening bells. effect not soothing, but reverse. d. inexpressibly affected. found sobbing afterwards, in own room.

quoted verses respecting self and young gazelle. ineffectually.

also referred to patience on monument. qy. why on monument j. m.

thursday. d. certainly improved. better night. slight tinge of damask revisiting cheek. resolved to mention name of d. c.

introduced same, cautiously, in course of airing. d. immediately overcome. oh, dear, dear julia oh, i have been a naughty and undutiful child soothed and caressed. drew ideal picture of d.

c. on verge of tomb. d. again overcome. oh, what shall i do, what shall i do oh, take me somewhere much alarmed. fainting of d. and glass of water from publichouse. poetical affinity.

chequered sign on doorpost chequered human life. alas j. m. friday. day of incident. man appears in kitchen, with blue bag,

for ladys boots left out to heel. cook replies, no such orders. man argues point. cook withdraws to inquire, leaving man alone with j. on cooks return, man still argues point, but ultimately goes. j. missing. d. distracted. information sent to police. man to be identified by broad nose, and legs like balustrades of bridge. search made in every direction. no j. d. weeping bitterly, and inconsolable. renewed reference to young gazelle. appropriate, but unavailing. towards evening, strange boy calls. brought into parlour. broad nose, but no balustrades.

says he wants a pound, and knows a dog. declines to explain further, though much pressed. pound being produced by d. takes cook to little house, where j. alone tied up to leg of table. joy of d. who dances round j. while he eats his supper. emboldened by this happy change, mention d. c. upstairs. d. weeps afresh, cries piteously, oh, dont, dont, dont it is so wicked to think of anything but poor papa  embraces j. and sobs herself to sleep. must not d. c. confine himself to the broad pinions of time j. m.

miss mills and her journal were my sole consolation at this period.

to see her, who had seen dora but a little while before  to trace the initial letter of doras name through her sympathetic pages  to be made more and more miserable by her  were my only comforts.

i felt as if i had been living in a palace of cards, which had tumbled down, leaving only miss mills and me among the ruins i felt as if some grim enchanter had drawn a magic circle round the innocent goddess of my heart, which nothing indeed but those same strong pinions, capable of carrying so many people over so much, would enable me to enter



chapter 

wickfield and heep

my aunt, beginning, i imagine, to be made seriously uncomfortable by my prolonged dejection, made a pretence of being anxious that i should go to dover, to see that all was working well at the cottage, which was let and to conclude an agreement, with the same tenant, for a longer term of occupation. janet was drafted into the service of mrs. strong, where i saw her every day. she had been undecided, on leaving dover, whether or no to give the finishing touch to that renunciation of mankind in which she had been educated, by marrying a pilot but she decided against that venture. not so much for the sake of principle, i believe, as because she happened not to like him.

although it required an effort to leave miss mills, i fell rather willingly into my aunts pretence, as a means of enabling me to pass a few tranquil hours with agnes. i consulted the good doctor relative to an absence of three days and the doctor wishing me to take that relaxation,  he wished me to take more but my energy could not bear that,  i made up my mind to go.

as to the commons, i had no great occasion to be particular about my duties in that quarter. to say the truth, we were getting in no very good odour among the tiptop proctors, and were rapidly sliding down to but a doubtful position. the business had been indifferent under mr. jorkins, before mr. spenlows time and although it had been quickened by the infusion of new blood, and by the display which mr. spenlow made, still it was not established on a sufficiently strong basis to bear, without being shaken, such a blow as the sudden loss of its active manager. it fell off very much. mr. jorkins, notwithstanding his reputation in the firm, was an easygoing, incapable sort of man, whose reputation out of doors was not calculated to back it up. i was turned over to him now, and when i saw him take his snuff and let the business go, i regretted my aunts thousand pounds more than ever.

but this was not the worst of it. there were a number of hangerson and outsiders about the commons, who, without being proctors themselves, dabbled in commonform business, and got it done by real proctors, who lent their names in consideration of a share in the spoil  and there were a good many of these too. as our house now wanted business on any terms, we joined this noble band and threw out lures to the hangerson and outsiders, to bring their business to us. marriage licences and small probates were what we all looked for, and what paid us best and the competition for these ran very high indeed. kidnappers and inveiglers were planted in all the avenues of entrance to the commons, with instructions to do their utmost to cut off all persons in mourning, and all gentlemen with anything bashful in their appearance, and entice them to the offices in which their respective employers were interested which instructions were so well observed, that i myself, before i was known by sight, was twice hustled into the premises of our principal opponent. the conflicting interests of these touting gentlemen being of a nature to irritate their feelings, personal collisions took place and the commons was even scandalized by our principal inveigler who had formerly been in the wine trade, and afterwards in the sworn brokery line walking about for some days with a black eye. any one of these scouts used to think nothing of politely assisting an old lady in black out of a vehicle, killing any proctor whom she inquired for, representing his employer as the lawful successor and representative of that proctor, and bearing the old lady off sometimes greatly affected to his employers office. many captives were brought to me in this way. as to marriage licences, the competition rose to such a pitch, that a shy gentleman in want of one, had nothing to do but submit himself to the first inveigler, or be fought for, and become the prey of the strongest. one of our clerks, who was an outsider, used, in the height of this contest, to sit with his hat on, that he might be ready to rush out and swear before a surrogate any victim who was brought in. the system of inveigling continues, i believe, to this day. the last time i was in the commons, a civil ablebodied person in a white apron pounced out upon me from a doorway, and whispering the word marriagelicence in my ear, was with great difficulty prevented from taking me up in his arms and lifting me into a proctors. from this digression, let me proceed to dover.

i found everything in a satisfactory state at the cottage and was enabled to gratify my aunt exceedingly by reporting that the tenant inherited her feud, and waged incessant war against donkeys.

having settled the little business i had to transact there, and slept there one night, i walked on to canterbury early in the morning. it was now winter again and the fresh, cold windy day, and the sweeping downland, brightened up my hopes a little.

coming into canterbury, i loitered through the old streets with a sober pleasure that calmed my spirits, and eased my heart. there were the old signs, the old names over the shops, the old people serving in them. it appeared so long, since i had been a schoolboy there, that i wondered the place was so little changed, until i reflected how little i was changed myself. strange to say, that quiet influence which was inseparable in my mind from agnes, seemed to pervade even the city where she dwelt. the venerable cathedral towers, and the old jackdaws and rooks whose airy voices made them more retired than perfect silence would have done the battered gateways, one stuck full with statues, long thrown down, and crumbled away, like the reverential pilgrims who had gazed upon them the still nooks, where the ivied growth of centuries crept over gabled ends and ruined walls the ancient houses, the pastoral landscape of field, orchard, and garden everywhere  on everything  i felt the same serener air, the same calm, thoughtful, softening spirit.

arrived at mr. wickfields house, i found, in the little lower room on the ground floor, where uriah heep had been of old accustomed to sit, mr. micawber plying his pen with great assiduity. he was dressed in a legallooking suit of black, and loomed, burly and large, in that small office.

mr. micawber was extremely glad to see me, but a little confused too. he would have conducted me immediately into the presence of uriah, but i declined.

i know the house of old, you recollect, said i, and will find my way upstairs. how do you like the law, mr. micawber

my dear copperfield, he replied. to a man possessed of the higher imaginative powers, the objection to legal studies is the amount of detail which they involve. even in our professional correspondence, said mr. micawber, glancing at some letters he was writing, the mind is not at liberty to soar to any exalted form of expression. still, it is a great pursuit. a great pursuit

he then told me that he had become the tenant of uriah heeps old house and that mrs. micawber would be delighted to receive me, once more, under her own roof.

it is humble, said mr. micawber,  to quote a favourite expression of my friend heep but it may prove the steppingstone to more ambitious domiciliary accommodation.

i asked him whether he had reason, so far, to be satisfied with his friend heeps treatment of him he got up to ascertain if the door were close shut, before he replied, in a lower voice my dear copperfield, a man who labours under the pressure of pecuniary embarrassments, is, with the generality of people, at a disadvantage. that disadvantage is not diminished, when that pressure necessitates the drawing of stipendiary emoluments, before those emoluments are strictly due and payable. all i can say is, that my friend heep has responded to appeals to which i need not more particularly refer, in a manner calculated to redound equally to the honour of his head, and of his heart.

i should not have supposed him to be very free with his money either, i observed.

pardon me said mr. micawber, with an air of constraint, i speak of my friend heep as i have experience.

i am glad your experience is so favourable, i returned.

you are very obliging, my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber and hummed a tune.

do you see much of mr. wickfield i asked, to change the subject.

not much, said mr. micawber, slightingly. mr. wickfield is, i dare say, a man of very excellent intentions but he is  in short, he is obsolete.

i am afraid his partner seeks to make him so, said i.

my dear copperfield returned mr. micawber, after some uneasy evolutions on his stool, allow me to offer a remark i am here, in a capacity of confidence. i am here, in a position of trust.

the discussion of some topics, even with mrs. micawber herself so long the partner of my various vicissitudes, and a woman of a remarkable lucidity of intellect, is, i am led to consider, incompatible with the functions now devolving on me. i would therefore take the liberty of suggesting that in our friendly intercourse  which i trust will never be disturbed  we draw a line. on one side of this line, said mr. micawber, representing it on the desk with the office ruler, is the whole range of the human intellect, with a trifling exception on the other, is that exception that is to say, the affairs of messrs wickfield and heep, with all belonging and appertaining thereunto. i trust i give no offence to the companion of my youth, in submitting this proposition to his cooler judgement

though i saw an uneasy change in mr. micawber, which sat tightly on him, as if his new duties were a misfit, i felt i had no right to be offended. my telling him so, appeared to relieve him and he shook hands with me.

i am charmed, copperfield, said mr. micawber, let me assure you, with miss wickfield. she is a very superior young lady, of very remarkable attractions, graces, and virtues. upon my honour, said mr. micawber, indefinitely kissing his hand and bowing with his genteelest air, i do homage to miss wickfield hem

i am glad of that, at least, said i.

if you had not assured us, my dear copperfield, on the occasion of that agreeable afternoon we had the happiness of passing with you, that d. was your favourite letter, said mr. micawber, i should unquestionably have supposed that a. had been so.

we have all some experience of a feeling, that comes over us occasionally, of what we are saying and doing having been said and done before, in a remote time  of our having been surrounded, dim ages ago, by the same faces, objects, and circumstances  of our knowing perfectly what will be said next, as if we suddenly remembered it i never had this mysterious impression more strongly in my life, than before he uttered those words.

i took my leave of mr. micawber, for the time, charging him with my best remembrances to all at home. as i left him, resuming his stool and his pen, and rolling his head in his stock, to get it into easier writing order, i clearly perceived that there was something interposed between him and me, since he had come into his new functions, which prevented our getting at each other as we used to do, and quite altered the character of our intercourse.

there was no one in the quaint old drawingroom, though it presented tokens of mrs. heeps whereabouts. i looked into the room still belonging to agnes, and saw her sitting by the fire, at a pretty oldfashioned desk she had, writing.

my darkening the light made her look up. what a pleasure to be the cause of that bright change in her attentive face, and the object of that sweet regard and welcome ah, agnes said i, when we were sitting together, side by side i have missed you so much, lately

indeed she replied. again and so soon

i shook my head.

i dont know how it is, agnes i seem to want some faculty of mind that i ought to have. you were so much in the habit of thinking for me, in the happy old days here, and i came so naturally to you for counsel and support, that i really think i have missed acquiring it.

and what is it said agnes, cheerfully.

i dont know what to call it, i replied. i think i am earnest and persevering

i am sure of it, said agnes.

and patient, agnes i inquired, with a little hesitation.

yes, returned agnes, laughing. pretty well.

and yet, said i, i get so miserable and worried, and am so unsteady and irresolute in my power of assuring myself, that i know i must want  shall i call it  reliance, of some kind

call it so, if you will, said agnes.

well i returned. see here you come to london, i rely on you, and i have an object and a course at once. i am driven out of it, i come here, and in a moment i feel an altered person. the circumstances that distressed me are not changed, since i came into this room but an influence comes over me in that short interval that alters me, oh, how much for the better what is it what is your secret, agnes

her head was bent down, looking at the fire.

its the old story, said i. dont laugh, when i say it was always the same in little things as it is in greater ones. my old troubles were nonsense, and now they are serious but whenever i have gone away from my adopted sister 

agnes looked up  with such a heavenly face  and gave me her hand, which i kissed.

whenever i have not had you, agnes, to advise and approve in the beginning, i have seemed to go wild, and to get into all sorts of difficulty. when i have come to you, at last as i have always done, i have come to peace and happiness. i come home, now, like a tired traveller, and find such a blessed sense of rest

i felt so deeply what i said, it affected me so sincerely, that my voice failed, and i covered my face with my hand, and broke into tears. i write the truth. whatever contradictions and inconsistencies there were within me, as there are within so many of us whatever might have been so different, and so much better whatever i had done, in which i had perversely wandered away from the voice of my own heart i knew nothing of. i only knew that i was fervently in earnest, when i felt the rest and peace of having agnes near me.

in her placid sisterly manner with her beaming eyes with her tender voice and with that sweet composure, which had long ago made the house that held her quite a sacred place to me she soon won me from this weakness, and led me on to tell all that had happened since our last meeting.

and there is not another word to tell, agnes, said i, when i had made an end of my confidence. now, my reliance is on you.

but it must not be on me, trotwood, returned agnes, with a pleasant smile. it must be on someone else.

on dora said i.

assuredly.

why, i have not mentioned, agnes, said i, a little embarrassed, that dora is rather difficult to  i would not, for the world, say, to rely upon, because she is the soul of purity and truth  but rather difficult to  i hardly know how to express it, really, agnes. she is a timid little thing, and easily disturbed and frightened. some time ago, before her fathers death, when i thought it right to mention to her  but ill tell you, if you will bear with me, how it was.

accordingly, i told agnes about my declaration of poverty, about the cookerybook, the housekeeping accounts, and all the rest of it.

oh, trotwood she remonstrated, with a smile. just your old headlong way you might have been in earnest in striving to get on in the world, without being so very sudden with a timid, loving, inexperienced girl. poor dora

i never heard such sweet forbearing kindness expressed in a voice, as she expressed in making this reply. it was as if i had seen her admiringly and tenderly embracing dora, and tacitly reproving me, by her considerate protection, for my hot haste in fluttering that little heart. it was as if i had seen dora, in all her fascinating artlessness, caressing agnes, and thanking her, and coaxingly appealing against me, and loving me with all her childish innocence.

i felt so grateful to agnes, and admired her so i saw those two together, in a bright perspective, such wellassociated friends, each adorning the other so much what ought i to do then, agnes i inquired, after looking at the fire a little while. what would it be right to do

i think, said agnes, that the honourable course to take, would be to write to those two ladies. dont you think that any secret course is an unworthy one

yes. if you think so, said i.

i am poorly qualified to judge of such matters, replied agnes, with a modest hesitation, but i certainly feel  in short, i feel that your being secret and clandestine, is not being like yourself.

like myself, in the too high opinion you have of me, agnes, i am afraid, said i.

like yourself, in the candour of your nature, she returned and therefore i would write to those two ladies. i would relate, as plainly and as openly as possible, all that has taken place and i would ask their permission to visit sometimes, at their house.

considering that you are young, and striving for a place in life, i think it would be well to say that you would readily abide by any conditions they might impose upon you. i would entreat them not to dismiss your request, without a reference to dora and to discuss it with her when they should think the time suitable. i would not be too vehement, said agnes, gently, or propose too much. i would trust to my fidelity and perseverance  and to dora.

but if they were to frighten dora again, agnes, by speaking to her, said i. and if dora were to cry, and say nothing about me

is that likely inquired agnes, with the same sweet consideration in her face.

god bless her, she is as easily scared as a bird, said i. it might be or if the two miss spenlows elderly ladies of that sort are odd characters sometimes should not be likely persons to address in that way

i dont think, trotwood, returned agnes, raising her soft eyes to mine, i would consider that. perhaps it would be better only to consider whether it is right to do this and, if it is, to do it.

i had no longer any doubt on the subject. with a lightened heart, though with a profound sense of the weighty importance of my task, i devoted the whole afternoon to the composition of the draft of this letter for which great purpose, agnes relinquished her desk to me. but first i went downstairs to see mr. wickfield and uriah heep.

i found uriah in possession of a new, plastersmelling office, built out in the garden looking extraordinarily mean, in the midst of a quantity of books and papers. he received me in his usual fawning way, and pretended not to have heard of my arrival from mr.

micawber a pretence i took the liberty of disbelieving. he accompanied me into mr. wickfields room, which was the shadow of its former self  having been divested of a variety of conveniences, for the accommodation of the new partner  and stood before the fire, warming his back, and shaving his chin with his bony hand, while mr. wickfield and i exchanged greetings.

you stay with us, trotwood, while you remain in canterbury said mr. wickfield, not without a glance at uriah for his approval.

is there room for me said i.

i am sure, master copperfield  i should say mister, but the other comes so natural, said uriah, i would turn out of your old room with pleasure, if it would be agreeable.

no, no, said mr. wickfield. why should you be inconvenienced

theres another room. theres another room.

oh, but you know, returned uriah, with a grin, i should really be delighted

to cut the matter short, i said i would have the other room or none at all so it was settled that i should have the other room and, taking my leave of the firm until dinner, i went upstairs again.

i had hoped to have no other companion than agnes. but mrs. heep had asked permission to bring herself and her knitting near the fire, in that room on pretence of its having an aspect more favourable for her rheumatics, as the wind then was, than the drawingroom or diningparlour. though i could almost have consigned her to the mercies of the wind on the topmost pinnacle of the cathedral, without remorse, i made a virtue of necessity, and gave her a friendly salutation.

im umbly thankful to you, sir, said mrs. heep, in acknowledgement of my inquiries concerning her health, but im only pretty well. i havent much to boast of. if i could see my uriah well settled in life, i couldnt expect much more i think.

how do you think my ury looking, sir

i thought him looking as villainous as ever, and i replied that i saw no change in him.

oh, dont you think hes changed said mrs. heep. there i must umbly beg leave to differ from you. dont you see a thinness in him

not more than usual, i replied.

dont you though said mrs. heep. but you dont take notice of him with a mothers eye

his mothers eye was an evil eye to the rest of the world, i thought as it met mine, howsoever affectionate to him and i believe she and her son were devoted to one another. it passed me, and went on to agnes.

dont you see a wasting and a wearing in him, miss wickfield inquired mrs. heep.

no, said agnes, quietly pursuing the work on which she was engaged. you are too solicitous about him. he is very well.

mrs. heep, with a prodigious sniff, resumed her knitting.

she never left off, or left us for a moment. i had arrived early in the day, and we had still three or four hours before dinner but she sat there, plying her knittingneedles as monotonously as an hourglass might have poured out its sands. she sat on one side of the fire i sat at the desk in front of it a little beyond me, on the other side, sat agnes. whensoever, slowly pondering over my letter, i lifted up my eyes, and meeting the thoughtful face of agnes, saw it clear, and beam encouragement upon me, with its own angelic expression, i was conscious presently of the evil eye passing me, and going on to her, and coming back to me again, and dropping furtively upon the knitting. what the knitting was, i dont know, not being learned in that art but it looked like a net and as she worked away with those chinese chopsticks of knittingneedles, she showed in the firelight like an illlooking enchantress, baulked as yet by the radiant goodness opposite, but getting ready for a cast of her net by and by.

at dinner she maintained her watch, with the same unwinking eyes.

after dinner, her son took his turn and when mr. wickfield, himself, and i were left alone together, leered at me, and writhed until i could hardly bear it. in the drawingroom, there was the mother knitting and watching again. all the time that agnes sang and played, the mother sat at the piano. once she asked for a particular ballad, which she said her ury who was yawning in a great chair doted on and at intervals she looked round at him, and reported to agnes that he was in raptures with the music. but she hardly ever spoke  i question if she ever did  without making some mention of him. it was evident to me that this was the duty assigned to her.

this lasted until bedtime. to have seen the mother and son, like two great bats hanging over the whole house, and darkening it with their ugly forms, made me so uncomfortable, that i would rather have remained downstairs, knitting and all, than gone to bed. i hardly got any sleep. next day the knitting and watching began again, and lasted all day.

i had not an opportunity of speaking to agnes, for ten minutes. i could barely show her my letter. i proposed to her to walk out with me but mrs. heep repeatedly complaining that she was worse, agnes charitably remained within, to bear her company. towards the twilight i went out by myself, musing on what i ought to do, and whether i was justified in withholding from agnes, any longer, what uriah heep had told me in london for that began to trouble me again, very much.

i had not walked out far enough to be quite clear of the town, upon the ramsgate road, where there was a good path, when i was hailed, through the dust, by somebody behind me. the shambling figure, and the scanty greatcoat, were not to be mistaken. i stopped, and uriah heep came up.

well said i.

how fast you walk said he. my legs are pretty long, but youve given em quite a job.

where are you going said i.

i am going with you, master copperfield, if youll allow me the pleasure of a walk with an old acquaintance. saying this, with a jerk of his body, which might have been either propitiatory or derisive, he fell into step beside me.

uriah said i, as civilly as i could, after a silence.

master copperfield said uriah.

to tell you the truth at which you will not be offended, i came out to walk alone, because i have had so much company.

he looked at me sideways, and said with his hardest grin, you mean mother.

why yes, i do, said i.

ah but you know were so very umble, he returned. and having such a knowledge of our own umbleness, we must really take care that were not pushed to the wall by them as isnt umble. all stratagems are fair in love, sir.

raising his great hands until they touched his chin, he rubbed them softly, and softly chuckled looking as like a malevolent baboon, i thought, as anything human could look.

you see, he said, still hugging himself in that unpleasant way, and shaking his head at me, youre quite a dangerous rival, master copperfield. you always was, you know.

do you set a watch upon miss wickfield, and make her home no home, because of me said i.

oh master copperfield those are very arsh words, he replied.

put my meaning into any words you like, said i. you know what it is, uriah, as well as i do.

oh no you must put it into words, he said. oh, really i couldnt myself.

do you suppose, said i, constraining myself to be very temperate and quiet with him, on account of agnes, that i regard miss wickfield otherwise than as a very dear sister

well, master copperfield, he replied, you perceive i am not bound to answer that question. you may not, you know. but then, you see, you may

anything to equal the low cunning of his visage, and of his shadowless eyes without the ghost of an eyelash, i never saw.

come then said i. for the sake of miss wickfield 

my agnes he exclaimed, with a sickly, angular contortion of himself. would you be so good as call her agnes, master copperfield

for the sake of agnes wickfield  heaven bless her

thank you for that blessing, master copperfieldhe interposed.

i will tell you what i should, under any other circumstances, as soon have thought of telling to  jack ketch.

to who, sir said uriah, stretching out his neck, and shading his ear with his hand.

to the hangman, i returned. the most unlikely person i could think of,  though his own face had suggested the allusion quite as a natural sequence. i am engaged to another young lady. i hope that contents you.

upon your soul said uriah.

i was about indignantly to give my assertion the confirmation he required, when he caught hold of my hand, and gave it a squeeze.

oh, master copperfield he said. if you had only had the condescension to return my confidence when i poured out the fulness of my art, the night i put you so much out of the way by sleeping before your sittingroom fire, i never should have doubted you. as it is, im sure ill take off mother directly, and only too appy.

i know youll excuse the precautions of affection, wont you what a pity, master copperfield, that you didnt condescend to return my confidence im sure i gave you every opportunity. but you never have condescended to me, as much as i could have wished. i know you have never liked me, as i have liked you

all this time he was squeezing my hand with his damp fishy fingers, while i made every effort i decently could to get it away. but i was quite unsuccessful. he drew it under the sleeve of his mulberrycoloured greatcoat, and i walked on, almost upon compulsion, arminarm with him.

shall we turn said uriah, by and by wheeling me face about towards the town, on which the early moon was now shining, silvering the distant windows.

before we leave the subject, you ought to understand, said i, breaking a pretty long silence, that i believe agnes wickfield to be as far above you, and as far removed from all your aspirations, as that moon herself

peaceful aint she said uriah. very now confess, master copperfield, that you havent liked me quite as i have liked you.

all along youve thought me too umble now, i shouldnt wonder

i am not fond of professions of humility, i returned, or professions of anything else.

there now said uriah, looking flabby and leadcoloured in the moonlight. didnt i know it but how little you think of the rightful umbleness of a person in my station, master copperfield

father and me was both brought up at a foundation school for boys and mother, she was likewise brought up at a public, sort of charitable, establishment. they taught us all a deal of umbleness  not much else that i know of, from morning to night. we was to be umble to this person, and umble to that and to pull off our caps here, and to make bows there and always to know our place, and abase ourselves before our betters. and we had such a lot of betters father got the monitormedal by being umble. so did i.

father got made a sexton by being umble. he had the character, among the gentlefolks, of being such a wellbehaved man, that they were determined to bring him in. be umble, uriah, says father to me, and youll get on. it was what was always being dinned into you and me at school its what goes down best. be umble, says father, and youll do and really it aint done bad

it was the first time it had ever occurred to me, that this detestable cant of false humility might have originated out of the heep family. i had seen the harvest, but had never thought of the seed.

when i was quite a young boy, said uriah, i got to know what umbleness did, and i took to it. i ate umble pie with an appetite.

i stopped at the umble point of my learning, and says i, hold hard when you offered to teach me latin, i knew better. people like to be above you, says father, keep yourself down. i am very umble to the present moment, master copperfield, but ive got a little power

and he said all this  i knew, as i saw his face in the moonlight  that i might understand he was resolved to recompense himself by using his power. i had never doubted his meanness, his craft and malice but i fully comprehended now, for the first time, what a base, unrelenting, and revengeful spirit, must have been engendered by this early, and this long, suppression.

his account of himself was so far attended with an agreeable result, that it led to his withdrawing his hand in order that he might have another hug of himself under the chin. once apart from him, i was determined to keep apart and we walked back, side by side, saying very little more by the way. whether his spirits were elevated by the communication i had made to him, or by his having indulged in this retrospect, i dont know but they were raised by some influence. he talked more at dinner than was usual with him asked his mother off duty, from the moment of our reentering the house whether he was not growing too old for a bachelor and once looked at agnes so, that i would have given all i had, for leave to knock him down.

when we three males were left alone after dinner, he got into a more adventurous state. he had taken little or no wine and i presume it was the mere insolence of triumph that was upon him, flushed perhaps by the temptation my presence furnished to its exhibition.

i had observed yesterday, that he tried to entice mr. wickfield to drink and, interpreting the look which agnes had given me as she went out, had limited myself to one glass, and then proposed that we should follow her. i would have done so again today but uriah was too quick for me.

we seldom see our present visitor, sir, he said, addressing mr.

wickfield, sitting, such a contrast to him, at the end of the table, and i should propose to give him welcome in another glass or two of wine, if you have no objections. mr. copperfield, your elth and appiness

i was obliged to make a show of taking the hand he stretched across to me and then, with very different emotions, i took the hand of the broken gentleman, his partner.

come, fellowpartner, said uriah, if i may take the liberty,  now, suppose you give us something or another appropriate to copperfield

i pass over mr. wickfields proposing my aunt, his proposing mr.

dick, his proposing doctors commons, his proposing uriah, his drinking everything twice his consciousness of his own weakness, the ineffectual effort that he made against it the struggle between his shame in uriahs deportment, and his desire to conciliate him the manifest exultation with which uriah twisted and turned, and held him up before me. it made me sick at heart to see, and my hand recoils from writing it.

come, fellowpartner said uriah, at last, ill give you another one, and i umbly ask for bumpers, seeing i intend to make it the divinest of her sex.

her father had his empty glass in his hand. i saw him set it down, look at the picture she was so like, put his hand to his forehead, and shrink back in his elbowchair.

im an umble individual to give you her elth, proceeded uriah, but i admire  adore her.

no physical pain that her fathers grey head could have borne, i think, could have been more terrible to me, than the mental endurance i saw compressed now within both his hands.

agnes, said uriah, either not regarding him, or not knowing what the nature of his action was, agnes wickfield is, i am safe to say, the divinest of her sex. may i speak out, among friends to be her father is a proud distinction, but to be her usband 

spare me from ever again hearing such a cry, as that with which her father rose up from the table whats the matter said uriah, turning of a deadly colour. you are not gone mad, after all, mr. wickfield, i hope if i say ive an ambition to make your agnes my agnes, i have as good a right to it as another man. i have a better right to it than any other man

i had my arms round mr. wickfield, imploring him by everything that i could think of, oftenest of all by his love for agnes, to calm himself a little. he was mad for the moment tearing out his hair, beating his head, trying to force me from him, and to force himself from me, not answering a word, not looking at or seeing anyone blindly striving for he knew not what, his face all staring and distorted  a frightful spectacle.

i conjured him, incoherently, but in the most impassioned manner, not to abandon himself to this wildness, but to hear me. i besought him to think of agnes, to connect me with agnes, to recollect how agnes and i had grown up together, how i honoured her and loved her, how she was his pride and joy. i tried to bring her idea before him in any form i even reproached him with not having firmness to spare her the knowledge of such a scene as this. i may have effected something, or his wildness may have spent itself but by degrees he struggled less, and began to look at me  strangely at first, then with recognition in his eyes. at length he said, i know, trotwood my darling child and you  i know but look at him

he pointed to uriah, pale and glowering in a corner, evidently very much out in his calculations, and taken by surprise.

look at my torturer, he replied. before him i have step by step abandoned name and reputation, peace and quiet, house and home.

i have kept your name and reputation for you, and your peace and quiet, and your house and home too, said uriah, with a sulky, hurried, defeated air of compromise. dont be foolish, mr.

wickfield. if i have gone a little beyond what you were prepared for, i can go back, i suppose theres no harm done.

i looked for single motives in everyone, said mr. wickfield, and i was satisfied i had bound him to me by motives of interest. but see what he is  oh, see what he is

you had better stop him, copperfield, if you can, cried uriah, with his long forefinger pointing towards me. hell say something presently  mind you  hell be sorry to have said afterwards, and youll be sorry to have heard

ill say anything cried mr. wickfield, with a desperate air.

why should i not be in all the worlds power if i am in yours

mind i tell you said uriah, continuing to warn me. if you dont stop his mouth, youre not his friend why shouldnt you be in all the worlds power, mr. wickfield because you have got a daughter. you and me know what we know, dont we let sleeping dogs lie  who wants to rouse em i dont. cant you see i am as umble as i can be i tell you, if ive gone too far, im sorry.

what would you have, sir

oh, trotwood, trotwoodexclaimed mr. wickfield, wringing his hands. what i have come down to be, since i first saw you in this house i was on my downward way then, but the dreary, dreary road i have traversed since weak indulgence has ruined me. indulgence in remembrance, and indulgence in forgetfulness. my natural grief for my childs mother turned to disease my natural love for my child turned to disease. i have infected everything i touched. i have brought misery on what i dearly love, i know you know i thought it possible that i could truly love one creature in the world, and not love the rest i thought it possible that i could truly mourn for one creature gone out of the world, and not have some part in the grief of all who mourned. thus the lessons of my life have been perverted i have preyed on my own morbid coward heart, and it has preyed on me. sordid in my grief, sordid in my love, sordid in my miserable escape from the darker side of both, oh see the ruin i am, and hate me, shun me

he dropped into a chair, and weakly sobbed. the excitement into which he had been roused was leaving him. uriah came out of his corner.

i dont know all i have done, in my fatuity, said mr. wickfield, putting out his hands, as if to deprecate my condemnation. he knows best, meaning uriah heep, for he has always been at my elbow, whispering me. you see the millstone that he is about my neck. you find him in my house, you find him in my business. you heard him, but a little time ago. what need have i to say more

you havent need to say so much, nor half so much, nor anything at all, observed uriah, half defiant, and half fawning. you wouldnt have took it up so, if it hadnt been for the wine.

youll think better of it tomorrow, sir. if i have said too much, or more than i meant, what of it i havent stood by it

the door opened, and agnes, gliding in, without a vestige of colour in her face, put her arm round his neck, and steadily said, papa, you are not well. come with me

he laid his head upon her shoulder, as if he were oppressed with heavy shame, and went out with her. her eyes met mine for but an instant, yet i saw how much she knew of what had passed.

i didnt expect hed cut up so rough, master copperfield, said uriah. but its nothing. ill be friends with him tomorrow.

its for his good. im umbly anxious for his good.

i gave him no answer, and went upstairs into the quiet room where agnes had so often sat beside me at my books. nobody came near me until late at night. i took up a book, and tried to read. i heard the clocks strike twelve, and was still reading, without knowing what i read, when agnes touched me.

you will be going early in the morning, trotwood let us say goodbye, now

she had been weeping, but her face then was so calm and beautiful heaven bless you she said, giving me her hand.

dearest agnes i returned, i see you ask me not to speak of tonight  but is there nothing to be done

there is god to trust in she replied.

can i do nothing i, who come to you with my poor sorrows

and make mine so much lighter, she replied. dear trotwood, no

dear agnes, i said, it is presumptuous for me, who am so poor in all in which you are so rich  goodness, resolution, all noble qualities  to doubt or direct you but you know how much i love you, and how much i owe you. you will never sacrifice yourself to a mistaken sense of duty, agnes

more agitated for a moment than i had ever seen her, she took her hands from me, and moved a step back.

say you have no such thought, dear agnes much more than sister

think of the priceless gift of such a heart as yours, of such a love as yours

oh long, long afterwards, i saw that face rise up before me, with its momentary look, not wondering, not accusing, not regretting.

oh, long, long afterwards, i saw that look subside, as it did now, into the lovely smile, with which she told me she had no fear for herself  i need have none for her  and parted from me by the name of brother, and was gone

it was dark in the morning, when i got upon the coach at the inn door. the day was just breaking when we were about to start, and then, as i sat thinking of her, came struggling up the coach side, through the mingled day and night, uriahs head.

copperfield said he, in a croaking whisper, as he hung by the iron on the roof, i thought youd be glad to hear before you went off, that there are no squares broke between us. ive been into his room already, and weve made it all smooth. why, though im umble, im useful to him, you know and he understands his interest when he isnt in liquor what an agreeable man he is, after all, master copperfield

i obliged myself to say that i was glad he had made his apology.

oh, to be sure said uriah. when a persons umble, you know, whats an apology so easy i say i suppose, with a jerk, you have sometimes plucked a pear before it was ripe, master copperfield

i suppose i have, i replied.

i did that last night, said uriah but itll ripen yet it only wants attending to. i can wait

profuse in his farewells, he got down again as the coachman got up.

for anything i know, he was eating something to keep the raw morning air out but he made motions with his mouth as if the pear were ripe already, and he were smacking his lips over it.



chapter 

the wanderer

we had a very serious conversation in buckingham street that night, about the domestic occurrences i have detailed in the last chapter.

my aunt was deeply interested in them, and walked up and down the room with her arms folded, for more than two hours afterwards.

whenever she was particularly discomposed, she always performed one of these pedestrian feats and the amount of her discomposure might always be estimated by the duration of her walk. on this occasion she was so much disturbed in mind as to find it necessary to open the bedroom door, and make a course for herself, comprising the full extent of the bedrooms from wall to wall and while mr. dick and i sat quietly by the fire, she kept passing in and out, along this measured track, at an unchanging pace, with the regularity of a clockpendulum.

when my aunt and i were left to ourselves by mr. dicks going out to bed, i sat down to write my letter to the two old ladies. by that time she was tired of walking, and sat by the fire with her dress tucked up as usual. but instead of sitting in her usual manner, holding her glass upon her knee, she suffered it to stand neglected on the chimneypiece and, resting her left elbow on her right arm, and her chin on her left hand, looked thoughtfully at me. as often as i raised my eyes from what i was about, i met hers. i am in the lovingest of tempers, my dear, she would assure me with a nod, but i am fidgeted and sorry

i had been too busy to observe, until after she was gone to bed, that she had left her nightmixture, as she always called it, untasted on the chimneypiece. she came to her door, with even more than her usual affection of manner, when i knocked to acquaint her with this discovery but only said, i have not the heart to take it, trot, tonight, and shook her head, and went in again.

she read my letter to the two old ladies, in the morning, and approved of it. i posted it, and had nothing to do then, but wait, as patiently as i could, for the reply. i was still in this state of expectation, and had been, for nearly a week when i left the doctors one snowy night, to walk home.

it had been a bitter day, and a cutting northeast wind had blown for some time. the wind had gone down with the light, and so the snow had come on. it was a heavy, settled fall, i recollect, in great flakes and it lay thick. the noise of wheels and tread of people were as hushed, as if the streets had been strewn that depth with feathers.

my shortest way home,  and i naturally took the shortest way on such a night  was through st. martins lane. now, the church which gives its name to the lane, stood in a less free situation at that time there being no open space before it, and the lane winding down to the strand. as i passed the steps of the portico, i encountered, at the corner, a womans face. it looked in mine, passed across the narrow lane, and disappeared. i knew it. i had seen it somewhere. but i could not remember where. i had some association with it, that struck upon my heart directly but i was thinking of anything else when it came upon me, and was confused.

on the steps of the church, there was the stooping figure of a man, who had put down some burden on the smooth snow, to adjust it my seeing the face, and my seeing him, were simultaneous. i dont think i had stopped in my surprise but, in any case, as i went on, he rose, turned, and came down towards me. i stood face to face with mr. peggotty

then i remembered the woman. it was martha, to whom emily had given the money that night in the kitchen. martha endell  side by side with whom, he would not have seen his dear niece, ham had told me, for all the treasures wrecked in the sea.

we shook hands heartily. at first, neither of us could speak a word.

masr davy he said, gripping me tight, it do my art good to see you, sir. well met, well met

well met, my dear old friend said i.

i had my thowts o coming to make inquiration for you, sir, tonight, he said, but knowing as your aunt was living along wi you  fur ive been down yonder  yarmouth way  i was afeerd it was too late. i should have come early in the morning, sir, afore going away.

again said i.

yes, sir, he replied, patiently shaking his head, im away tomorrow.

where were you going now i asked.

well he replied, shaking the snow out of his long hair, i was agoing to turn in somewheers.

in those days there was a sideentrance to the stableyard of the golden cross, the inn so memorable to me in connexion with his misfortune, nearly opposite to where we stood. i pointed out the gateway, put my arm through his, and we went across. two or three publicrooms opened out of the stableyard and looking into one of them, and finding it empty, and a good fire burning, i took him in there.

when i saw him in the light, i observed, not only that his hair was long and ragged, but that his face was burnt dark by the sun. he was greyer, the lines in his face and forehead were deeper, and he had every appearance of having toiled and wandered through all varieties of weather but he looked very strong, and like a man upheld by steadfastness of purpose, whom nothing could tire out.

he shook the snow from his hat and clothes, and brushed it away from his face, while i was inwardly making these remarks. as he sat down opposite to me at a table, with his back to the door by which we had entered, he put out his rough hand again, and grasped mine warmly.

ill tell you, masr davy, he said,  wheer all ive been, and whatall weve heerd. ive been fur, and weve heerd little but ill tell you

i rang the bell for something hot to drink. he would have nothing stronger than ale and while it was being brought, and being warmed at the fire, he sat thinking. there was a fine, massive gravity in his face, i did not venture to disturb.

when she was a child, he said, lifting up his head soon after we were left alone, she used to talk to me a deal about the sea, and about them coasts where the sea got to be dark blue, and to lay ashining and ashining in the sun. i thowt, odd times, as her father being drownded made her think on it so much. i doent know, you see, but maybe she believed  or hoped  he had drifted out to them parts, where the flowers is always ablowing, and the country bright.

it is likely to have been a childish fancy, i replied.

when she was  lost, said mr. peggotty, i knowd in my mind, as he would take her to them countries. i knowd in my mind, as hed have told her wonders of em, and how she was to be a lady theer, and how he got her to listen to him fust, along o sech like. when we see his mother, i knowd quite well as i was right. i went acrosschannel to france, and landed theer, as if id fell down from the sky.

i saw the door move, and the snow drift in. i saw it move a little more, and a hand softly interpose to keep it open.

i found out an english genleman as was in authority, said mr.

peggotty, and told him i was agoing to seek my niece. he got me them papers as i wanted fur to carry me through  i doent rightly know how theyre called  and he would have give me money, but that i was thankful to have no need on. i thank him kind, for all he done, im sure ive wrote afore you, he says to me, and i shall speak to many as will come that way, and many will know you, fur distant from here, when youre atravelling alone. i told him, best as i was able, what my gratitoode was, and went away through france.

alone, and on foot said i.

mostly afoot, he rejoined sometimes in carts along with people going to market sometimes in empty coaches. many mile a day afoot, and often with some poor soldier or another, travelling to see his friends. i couldnt talk to him, said mr. peggotty, nor he to me but we was company for one another, too, along the dusty roads.

i should have known that by his friendly tone.

when i come to any town, he pursued, i found the inn, and waited about the yard till someone turned up someone mostly did as knowd english. then i told how that i was on my way to seek my niece, and they told me what manner of gentlefolks was in the house, and i waited to see any as seemed like her, going in or out.

when it warnt emly, i went on agen. by little and little, when i come to a new village or that, among the poor people, i found they knowd about me. they would set me down at their cottage doors, and give me whatnot fur to eat and drink, and show me where to sleep and many a woman, masr davy, as has had a daughter of about emlys age, ive found awaiting fur me, at our saviours cross outside the village, fur to do me simlar kindnesses. some has had daughters as was dead. and god only knows how good them mothers was to me

it was martha at the door. i saw her haggard, listening face distinctly. my dread was lest he should turn his head, and see her too.

they would often put their children  particular their little girls, said mr. peggotty, upon my knee and many a time you might have seen me sitting at their doors, when night was coming in, amost as if theyd been my darlings children. oh, my darling

overpowered by sudden grief, he sobbed aloud. i laid my trembling hand upon the hand he put before his face. thankee, sir, he said, doent take no notice.

in a very little while he took his hand away and put it on his breast, and went on with his story.

they often walked with me, he said, in the morning, maybe a mile or two upon my road and when we parted, and i said, im very thankful to you god bless you they always seemed to understand, and answered pleasant. at last i come to the sea. it warnt hard, you may suppose, for a seafaring man like me to work his way over to italy. when i got theer, i wandered on as i had done afore.

the people was just as good to me, and i should have gone from town to town, maybe the country through, but that i got news of her being seen among them swiss mountains yonder. one as knowd his servant see em there, all three, and told me how they travelled, and where they was. i made fur them mountains, masr davy, day and night. ever so fur as i went, ever so fur the mountains seemed to shift away from me. but i come up with em, and i crossed em.

when i got nigh the place as i had been told of, i began to think within my own self, what shall i do when i see her

the listening face, insensible to the inclement night, still drooped at the door, and the hands begged me  prayed me  not to cast it forth.

i never doubted her, said mr. peggotty. no not a bit ony let her see my face  ony let her beer my voice  ony let my stanning still afore her bring to her thoughts the home she had fled away from, and the child she had been  and if she had growed to be a royal lady, shed have fell down at my feet i knowd it well many a time in my sleep had i heerd her cry out, uncle and seen her fall like death afore me. many a time in my sleep had i raised her up, and whispered to her, emly, my dear, i am come fur to bring forgiveness, and to take you home

he stopped and shook his head, and went on with a sigh.

he was nowt to me now. emly was all. i bought a country dress to put upon her and i knowd that, once found, she would walk beside me over them stony roads, go where i would, and never, never, leave me more. to put that dress upon her, and to cast off what she wore  to take her on my arm again, and wander towards home  to stop sometimes upon the road, and heal her bruised feet and her worsebruised heart  was all that i thowt of now. i doent believe i should have done so much as look at him. but, masr davy, it warnt to be  not yet i was too late, and they was gone. wheer, i couldnt learn. some said beer, some said theer. i travelled beer, and i travelled theer, but i found no emly, and i travelled home.

how long ago i asked.

a matter o fower days, said mr. peggotty. i sighted the old boat arter dark, and the light ashining in the winder. when i come nigh and looked in through the glass, i see the faithful creetur missis gummidge sittin by the fire, as we had fixed upon, alone. i called out, doent be afeerd its danl and i went in. i never could have thowt the old boat would have been so strange

from some pocket in his breast, he took out, with a very careful hand a small paper bundle containing two or three letters or little packets, which he laid upon the table.

this fust one come, he said, selecting it from the rest, afore i had been gone a week. a fifty pound bank note, in a sheet of paper, directed to me, and put underneath the door in the night.

she tried to hide her writing, but she couldnt hide it from me

he folded up the note again, with great patience and care, in exactly the same form, and laid it on one side.

this come to missis gummidge, he said, opening another, two or three months ago.after looking at it for some moments, he gave it to me, and added in a low voice, be so good as read it, sir.

i read as follows


oh what will you feel when you see this writing, and know it comes from my wicked hand but try, try  not for my sake, but for uncles goodness, try to let your heart soften to me, only for a little little time try, pray do, to relent towards a miserable girl, and write down on a bit of paper whether he is well, and what he said about me before you left off ever naming me among yourselves  and whether, of a night, when it is my old time of coming home, you ever see him look as if he thought of one he used to love so dear. oh, my heart is breaking when i think about it

i am kneeling down to you, begging and praying you not to be as hard with me as i deserve  as i well, well, know i deserve  but to be so gentle and so good, as to write down something of him, and to send it to me. you need not call me little, you need not call me by the name i have disgraced but oh, listen to my agony, and have mercy on me so far as to write me some word of uncle, never, never to be seen in this world by my eyes again dear, if your heart is hard towards me  justly hard, i know  but, listen, if it is hard, dear, ask him i have wronged the most  him whose wife i was to have been  before you quite decide against my poor poor prayer if he should be so compassionate as to say that you might write something for me to read  i think he would, oh, i think he would, if you would only ask him, for he always was so brave and so forgiving  tell him then but not else, that when i hear the wind blowing at night, i feel as if it was passing angrily from seeing him and uncle, and was going up to god against me. tell him that if i was to die tomorrow and oh, if i was fit, i would be so glad to die i would bless him and uncle with my last words, and pray for his happy home with my last breath


some money was enclosed in this letter also. five pounds. it was untouched like the previous sum, and he refolded it in the same way. detailed instructions were added relative to the address of a reply, which, although they betrayed the intervention of several hands, and made it difficult to arrive at any very probable conclusion in reference to her place of concealment, made it at least not unlikely that she had written from that spot where she was stated to have been seen.

what answer was sent i inquired of mr. peggotty.

missis gummidge, he returned, not being a good scholar, sir, ham kindly drawed it out, and she made a copy on it. they told her i was gone to seek her, and what my parting words was.

is that another letter in your hand said i.

its money, sir, said mr. peggotty, unfolding it a little way.

ten pound, you see. and wrote inside, from a true friend, like the fust. but the fust was put underneath the door, and this come by the post, day afore yesterday. im agoing to seek her at the postmark.

he showed it to me. it was a town on the upper rhine. he had found out, at yarmouth, some foreign dealers who knew that country, and they had drawn him a rude map on paper, which he could very well understand. he laid it between us on the table and, with his chin resting on one hand, tracked his course upon it with the other.

i asked him how ham was he shook his head.

he works, he said, as bold as a man can. his names as good, in all that part, as any mans is, anywheres in the wureld. anyones hand is ready to help him, you understand, and his is ready to help them. hes never been heerd fur to complain. but my sisters belief is twixt ourselves as it has cut him deep.

poor fellow, i can believe it

he aint no care, masr davy, said mr. peggotty in a solemn whisper  kinder no care nohow for his life. when a mans wanted for rough sarvice in rough weather, hes theer. when theres hard duty to be done with danger in it, he steps forard afore all his mates. and yet hes as gentle as any child. there aint a child in yarmouth that doent know him.

he gathered up the letters thoughtfully, smoothing them with his hand put them into their little bundle and placed it tenderly in his breast again. the face was gone from the door. i still saw the snow drifting in but nothing else was there.

well he said, looking to his bag, having seen you tonight, masr davy and that doos me good, i shall away betimes tomorrow morning. you have seen what ive got heer putting his hand on where the little packet lay all that troubles me is, to think that any harm might come to me, afore that money was give back. if i was to die, and it was lost, or stole, or elseways made away with, and it was never knowd by him but what id took it, i believe the tother wureld wouldnt hold me i believe i must come back

he rose, and i rose too we grasped each other by the hand again, before going out.

id go ten thousand mile, he said, id go till i dropped dead, to lay that money down afore him. if i do that, and find my emly, im content. if i doent find her, maybe shell come to hear, sometime, as her loving uncle only ended his search for her when he ended his life and if i know her, even that will turn her home at last

as he went out into the rigorous night, i saw the lonely figure flit away before us. i turned him hastily on some pretence, and held him in conversation until it was gone.

he spoke of a travellers house on the dover road, where he knew he could find a clean, plain lodging for the night. i went with him over westminster bridge, and parted from him on the surrey shore.

everything seemed, to my imagination, to be hushed in reverence for him, as he resumed his solitary journey through the snow.

i returned to the inn yard, and, impressed by my remembrance of the face, looked awfully around for it. it was not there. the snow had covered our late footprints my new track was the only one to be seen and even that began to die away it snowed so fast as i looked back over my shoulder.



chapter 

doras aunts

at last, an answer came from the two old ladies. they presented their compliments to mr. copperfield, and informed him that they had given his letter their best consideration, with a view to the happiness of both parties  which i thought rather an alarming expression, not only because of the use they had made of it in relation to the family difference beforementioned, but because i had and have all my life observed that conventional phrases are a sort of fireworks, easily let off, and liable to take a great variety of shapes and colours not at all suggested by their original form. the misses spenlow added that they begged to forbear expressing, through the medium of correspondence, an opinion on the subject of mr. copperfields communication but that if mr. copperfield would do them the favour to call, upon a certain day accompanied, if he thought proper, by a confidential friend, they would be happy to hold some conversation on the subject.

to this favour, mr. copperfield immediately replied, with his respectful compliments, that he would have the honour of waiting on the misses spenlow, at the time appointed accompanied, in accordance with their kind permission, by his friend mr. thomas traddles of the inner temple. having dispatched which missive, mr.

copperfield fell into a condition of strong nervous agitation and so remained until the day arrived.

it was a great augmentation of my uneasiness to be bereaved, at this eventful crisis, of the inestimable services of miss mills.

but mr. mills, who was always doing something or other to annoy me  or i felt as if he were, which was the same thing  had brought his conduct to a climax, by taking it into his head that he would go to india. why should he go to india, except to harass me to be sure he had nothing to do with any other part of the world, and had a good deal to do with that part being entirely in the india trade, whatever that was i had floating dreams myself concerning golden shawls and elephants teeth having been at calcutta in his youth and designing now to go out there again, in the capacity of resident partner. but this was nothing to me. however, it was so much to him that for india he was bound, and julia with him and julia went into the country to take leave of her relations and the house was put into a perfect suit of bills, announcing that it was to be let or sold, and that the furniture mangle and all was to be taken at a valuation. so, here was another earthquake of which i became the sport, before i had recovered from the shock of its predecessor

i was in several minds how to dress myself on the important day being divided between my desire to appear to advantage, and my apprehensions of putting on anything that might impair my severely practical character in the eyes of the misses spenlow. i endeavoured to hit a happy medium between these two extremes my aunt approved the result and mr. dick threw one of his shoes after traddles and me, for luck, as we went downstairs.

excellent fellow as i knew traddles to be, and warmly attached to him as i was, i could not help wishing, on that delicate occasion, that he had never contracted the habit of brushing his hair so very upright. it gave him a surprised look  not to say a hearthbroomy kind of expression  which, my apprehensions whispered, might be fatal to us.

i took the liberty of mentioning it to traddles, as we were walking to putney and saying that if he would smooth it down a little  my dear copperfield, said traddles, lifting off his hat, and rubbing his hair all kinds of ways, nothing would give me greater pleasure. but it wont.

wont be smoothed down said i.

no, said traddles. nothing will induce it. if i was to carry a halfhundredweight upon it, all the way to putney, it would be up again the moment the weight was taken off. you have no idea what obstinate hair mine is, copperfield. i am quite a fretful porcupine.

i was a little disappointed, i must confess, but thoroughly charmed by his goodnature too. i told him how i esteemed his goodnature and said that his hair must have taken all the obstinacy out of his character, for he had none.

oh returned traddles, laughing. i assure you, its quite an old story, my unfortunate hair. my uncles wife couldnt bear it.

she said it exasperated her. it stood very much in my way, too, when i first fell in love with sophy. very much

did she object to it

she didnt, rejoined traddles but her eldest sister  the one thats the beauty  quite made game of it, i understand. in fact, all the sisters laugh at it.

agreeable said i.

yes, returned traddles with perfect innocence, its a joke for us. they pretend that sophy has a lock of it in her desk, and is obliged to shut it in a clasped book, to keep it down. we laugh about it.

by the by, my dear traddles, said i, your experience may suggest something to me. when you became engaged to the young lady whom you have just mentioned, did you make a regular proposal to her family was there anything like  what we are going through today, for instance i added, nervously.

why, replied traddles, on whose attentive face a thoughtful shade had stolen, it was rather a painful transaction, copperfield, in my case. you see, sophy being of so much use in the family, none of them could endure the thought of her ever being married.

indeed, they had quite settled among themselves that she never was to be married, and they called her the old maid. accordingly, when i mentioned it, with the greatest precaution, to mrs. crewler 

the mama said i.

the mama, said traddles  reverend horace crewler  when i mentioned it with every possible precaution to mrs. crewler, the effect upon her was such that she gave a scream and became insensible. i couldnt approach the subject again, for months.

you did at last said i.

well, the reverend horace did, said traddles. he is an excellent man, most exemplary in every way and he pointed out to her that she ought, as a christian, to reconcile herself to the sacrifice especially as it was so uncertain, and to bear no uncharitable feeling towards me. as to myself, copperfield, i give you my word, i felt a perfect bird of prey towards the family.

the sisters took your part, i hope, traddles

why, i cant say they did, he returned. when we had comparatively reconciled mrs. crewler to it, we had to break it to sarah. you recollect my mentioning sarah, as the one that has something the matter with her spine

perfectly

she clenched both her hands, said traddles, looking at me in dismay shut her eyes turned leadcolour became perfectly stiff and took nothing for two days but toastandwater, administered with a teaspoon.

what a very unpleasant girl, traddles i remarked.

oh, i beg your pardon, copperfield said traddles. she is a very charming girl, but she has a great deal of feeling. in fact, they all have. sophy told me afterwards, that the selfreproach she underwent while she was in attendance upon sarah, no words could describe. i know it must have been severe, by my own feelings, copperfield which were like a criminals. after sarah was restored, we still had to break it to the other eight and it produced various effects upon them of a most pathetic nature. the two little ones, whom sophy educates, have only just left off detesting me.

at any rate, they are all reconciled to it now, i hope said i.

yeyes, i should say they were, on the whole, resigned to it, said traddles, doubtfully. the fact is, we avoid mentioning the subject and my unsettled prospects and indifferent circumstances are a great consolation to them. there will be a deplorable scene, whenever we are married. it will be much more like a funeral, than a wedding. and theyll all hate me for taking her away

his honest face, as he looked at me with a seriocomic shake of his head, impresses me more in the remembrance than it did in the reality, for i was by this time in a state of such excessive trepidation and wandering of mind, as to be quite unable to fix my attention on anything. on our approaching the house where the misses spenlow lived, i was at such a discount in respect of my personal looks and presence of mind, that traddles proposed a gentle stimulant in the form of a glass of ale. this having been administered at a neighbouring publichouse, he conducted me, with tottering steps, to the misses spenlows door.

i had a vague sensation of being, as it were, on view, when the maid opened it and of wavering, somehow, across a hall with a weatherglass in it, into a quiet little drawingroom on the groundfloor, commanding a neat garden. also of sitting down here, on a sofa, and seeing traddless hair start up, now his hat was removed, like one of those obtrusive little figures made of springs, that fly out of fictitious snuffboxes when the lid is taken off. also of hearing an oldfashioned clock ticking away on the chimneypiece, and trying to make it keep time to the jerking of my heart,  which it wouldnt. also of looking round the room for any sign of dora, and seeing none. also of thinking that jip once barked in the distance, and was instantly choked by somebody.

ultimately i found myself backing traddles into the fireplace, and bowing in great confusion to two dry little elderly ladies, dressed in black, and each looking wonderfully like a preparation in chip or tan of the late mr. spenlow.

pray, said one of the two little ladies, be seated.

when i had done tumbling over traddles, and had sat upon something which was not a cat  my first seat was  i so far recovered my sight, as to perceive that mr. spenlow had evidently been the youngest of the family that there was a disparity of six or eight years between the two sisters and that the younger appeared to be the manager of the conference, inasmuch as she had my letter in her hand  so familiar as it looked to me, and yet so odd  and was referring to it through an eyeglass. they were dressed alike, but this sister wore her dress with a more youthful air than the other and perhaps had a trifle more frill, or tucker, or brooch, or bracelet, or some little thing of that kind, which made her look more lively. they were both upright in their carriage, formal, precise, composed, and quiet. the sister who had not my letter, had her arms crossed on her breast, and resting on each other, like an idol.

mr. copperfield, i believe, said the sister who had got my letter, addressing herself to traddles.

this was a frightful beginning. traddles had to indicate that i was mr. copperfield, and i had to lay claim to myself, and they had to divest themselves of a preconceived opinion that traddles was mr. copperfield, and altogether we were in a nice condition. to improve it, we all distinctly heard jip give two short barks, and receive another choke.

mr. copperfield said the sister with the letter.

i did something  bowed, i suppose  and was all attention, when the other sister struck in.

my sister lavinia, said she being conversant with matters of this nature, will state what we consider most calculated to promote the happiness of both parties.

i discovered afterwards that miss lavinia was an authority in affairs of the heart, by reason of there having anciently existed a certain mr. pidger, who played short whist, and was supposed to have been enamoured of her. my private opinion is, that this was entirely a gratuitous assumption, and that pidger was altogether innocent of any such sentiments  to which he had never given any sort of expression that i could ever hear of. both miss lavinia and miss clarissa had a superstition, however, that he would have declared his passion, if he had not been cut short in his youth at about sixty by overdrinking his constitution, and overdoing an attempt to set it right again by swilling bath water. they had a lurking suspicion even, that he died of secret love though i must say there was a picture of him in the house with a damask nose, which concealment did not appear to have ever preyed upon.

we will not, said miss lavinia, enter on the past history of this matter. our poor brother franciss death has cancelled that.

we had not, said miss clarissa, been in the habit of frequent association with our brother francis but there was no decided division or disunion between us. francis took his road we took ours. we considered it conducive to the happiness of all parties that it should be so. and it was so.

each of the sisters leaned a little forward to speak, shook her head after speaking, and became upright again when silent. miss clarissa never moved her arms. she sometimes played tunes upon them with her fingers  minuets and marches i should think  but never moved them.

our nieces position, or supposed position, is much changed by our brother franciss death, said miss lavinia and therefore we consider our brothers opinions as regarded her position as being changed too. we have no reason to doubt, mr. copperfield, that you are a young gentleman possessed of good qualities and honourable character or that you have an affection  or are fully persuaded that you have an affection  for our niece.

i replied, as i usually did whenever i had a chance, that nobody had ever loved anybody else as i loved dora. traddles came to my assistance with a confirmatory murmur.

miss lavinia was going on to make some rejoinder, when miss clarissa, who appeared to be incessantly beset by a desire to refer to her brother francis, struck in again if doras mama, she said, when she married our brother francis, had at once said that there was not room for the family at the dinnertable, it would have been better for the happiness of all parties.

sister clarissa, said miss lavinia. perhaps we neednt mind that now.

sister lavinia, said miss clarissa, it belongs to the subject.

with your branch of the subject, on which alone you are competent to speak, i should not think of interfering. on this branch of the subject i have a voice and an opinion. it would have been better for the happiness of all parties, if doras mama, when she married our brother francis, had mentioned plainly what her intentions were. we should then have known what we had to expect. we should have said pray do not invite us, at any time and all possibility of misunderstanding would have been avoided.

when miss clarissa had shaken her head, miss lavinia resumed again referring to my letter through her eyeglass. they both had little bright round twinkling eyes, by the way, which were like birds eyes. they were not unlike birds, altogether having a sharp, brisk, sudden manner, and a little short, spruce way of adjusting themselves, like canaries.

miss lavinia, as i have said, resumed you ask permission of my sister clarissa and myself, mr.

copperfield, to visit here, as the accepted suitor of our niece.

if our brother francis, said miss clarissa, breaking out again, if i may call anything so calm a breaking out, wished to surround himself with an atmosphere of doctors commons, and of doctors

commons only, what right or desire had we to object none, i am sure. we have ever been far from wishing to obtrude ourselves on anyone. but why not say so let our brother francis and his wife have their society. let my sister lavinia and myself have our society. we can find it for ourselves, i hope.

as this appeared to be addressed to traddles and me, both traddles and i made some sort of reply. traddles was inaudible. i think i observed, myself, that it was highly creditable to all concerned.

i dont in the least know what i meant.

sister lavinia, said miss clarissa, having now relieved her mind, you can go on, my dear.

miss lavinia proceeded mr. copperfield, my sister clarissa and i have been very careful indeed in considering this letter and we have not considered it without finally showing it to our niece, and discussing it with our niece. we have no doubt that you think you like her very much.

think, maam, i rapturously began, oh 

but miss clarissa giving me a look just like a sharp canary, as requesting that i would not interrupt the oracle, i begged pardon.

affection, said miss lavinia, glancing at her sister for corroboration, which she gave in the form of a little nod to every clause, mature affection, homage, devotion, does not easily express itself. its voice is low. it is modest and retiring, it lies in ambush, waits and waits. such is the mature fruit.

sometimes a life glides away, and finds it still ripening in the shade.

of course i did not understand then that this was an allusion to her supposed experience of the stricken pidger but i saw, from the gravity with which miss clarissa nodded her head, that great weight was attached to these words.

the light  for i call them, in comparison with such sentiments, the light  inclinations of very young people, pursued miss lavinia, are dust, compared to rocks. it is owing to the difficulty of knowing whether they are likely to endure or have any real foundation, that my sister clarissa and myself have been very undecided how to act, mr. copperfield, and mr. 

traddles, said my friend, finding himself looked at.

i beg pardon. of the inner temple, i believe said miss clarissa, again glancing at my letter.

traddles said exactly so, and became pretty red in the face.

now, although i had not received any express encouragement as yet, i fancied that i saw in the two little sisters, and particularly in miss lavinia, an intensified enjoyment of this new and fruitful subject of domestic interest, a settling down to make the most of it, a disposition to pet it, in which there was a good bright ray of hope. i thought i perceived that miss lavinia would have uncommon satisfaction in superintending two young lovers, like dora and me and that miss clarissa would have hardly less satisfaction in seeing her superintend us, and in chiming in with her own particular department of the subject whenever that impulse was strong upon her. this gave me courage to protest most vehemently that i loved dora better than i could tell, or anyone believe that all my friends knew how i loved her that my aunt, agnes, traddles, everyone who knew me, knew how i loved her, and how earnest my love had made me. for the truth of this, i appealed to traddles. and traddles, firing up as if he were plunging into a parliamentary debate, really did come out nobly confirming me in good round terms, and in a plain sensible practical manner, that evidently made a favourable impression.

i speak, if i may presume to say so, as one who has some little experience of such things, said traddles, being myself engaged to a young lady  one of ten, down in devonshire  and seeing no probability, at present, of our engagement coming to a termination.

you may be able to confirm what i have said, mr. traddles, observed miss lavinia, evidently taking a new interest in him, of the affection that is modest and retiring that waits and waits

entirely, maam, said traddles.

miss clarissa looked at miss lavinia, and shook her head gravely.

miss lavinia looked consciously at miss clarissa, and heaved a little sigh.

sister lavinia, said miss clarissa, take my smellingbottle.

miss lavinia revived herself with a few whiffs of aromatic vinegar  traddles and i looking on with great solicitude the while and then went on to say, rather faintly my sister and myself have been in great doubt, mr. traddles, what course we ought to take in reference to the likings, or imaginary likings, of such very young people as your friend mr. copperfield and our niece.

our brother franciss child, remarked miss clarissa. if our brother franciss wife had found it convenient in her lifetime though she had an unquestionable right to act as she thought best to invite the family to her dinnertable, we might have known our brother franciss child better at the present moment. sister lavinia, proceed.

miss lavinia turned my letter, so as to bring the superscription towards herself, and referred through her eyeglass to some orderlylooking notes she had made on that part of it.

it seems to us, said she, prudent, mr. traddles, to bring these feelings to the test of our own observation. at present we know nothing of them, and are not in a situation to judge how much reality there may be in them. therefore we are inclined so far to accede to mr. copperfields proposal, as to admit his visits here.

i shall never, dear ladies, i exclaimed, relieved of an immense load of apprehension, forget your kindness

but, pursued miss lavinia,  but, we would prefer to regard those visits, mr. traddles, as made, at present, to us. we must guard ourselves from recognizing any positive engagement between mr. copperfield and our niece, until we have had an opportunity 

until you have had an opportunity, sister lavinia, said miss clarissa.

be it so, assented miss lavinia, with a sigh  until i have had an opportunity of observing them.

copperfield, said traddles, turning to me, you feel, i am sure, that nothing could be more reasonable or considerate.

nothing cried i. i am deeply sensible of it.

in this position of affairs, said miss lavinia, again referring to her notes, and admitting his visits on this understanding only, we must require from mr. copperfield a distinct assurance, on his word of honour, that no communication of any kind shall take place between him and our niece without our knowledge. that no project whatever shall be entertained with regard to our niece, without being first submitted to us 

to you, sister lavinia, miss clarissa interposed.

be it so, clarissa assented miss lavinia resignedly  to me  and receiving our concurrence. we must make this a most express and serious stipulation, not to be broken on any account. we wished mr. copperfield to be accompanied by some confidential friend today, with an inclination of her head towards traddles, who bowed, in order that there might be no doubt or misconception on this subject. if mr. copperfield, or if you, mr. traddles, feel the least scruple, in giving this promise, i beg you to take time to consider it.

i exclaimed, in a state of high ecstatic fervour, that not a moments consideration could be necessary. i bound myself by the required promise, in a most impassioned manner called upon traddles to witness it and denounced myself as the most atrocious of characters if i ever swerved from it in the least degree.

stay said miss lavinia, holding up her hand we resolved, before we had the pleasure of receiving you two gentlemen, to leave you alone for a quarter of an hour, to consider this point. you will allow us to retire.

it was in vain for me to say that no consideration was necessary.

they persisted in withdrawing for the specified time. accordingly, these little birds hopped out with great dignity leaving me to receive the congratulations of traddles, and to feel as if i were translated to regions of exquisite happiness. exactly at the expiration of the quarter of an hour, they reappeared with no less dignity than they had disappeared. they had gone rustling away as if their little dresses were made of autumnleaves and they came rustling back, in like manner.

i then bound myself once more to the prescribed conditions.

sister clarissa, said miss lavinia, the rest is with you.

miss clarissa, unfolding her arms for the first time, took the notes and glanced at them.

we shall be happy, said miss clarissa, to see mr. copperfield to dinner, every sunday, if it should suit his convenience. our hour is three.

i bowed.

in the course of the week, said miss clarissa, we shall be happy to see mr. copperfield to tea. our hour is halfpast six.

i bowed again.

twice in the week, said miss clarissa, but, as a rule, not oftener.

i bowed again.

miss trotwood, said miss clarissa, mentioned in mr.

copperfields letter, will perhaps call upon us. when visiting is better for the happiness of all parties, we are glad to receive visits, and return them. when it is better for the happiness of all parties that no visiting should take place, as in the case of our brother francis, and his establishment that is quite different.

i intimated that my aunt would be proud and delighted to make their acquaintance though i must say i was not quite sure of their getting on very satisfactorily together. the conditions being now closed, i expressed my acknowledgements in the warmest manner and, taking the hand, first of miss clarissa, and then of miss lavinia, pressed it, in each case, to my lips.

miss lavinia then arose, and begging mr. traddles to excuse us for a minute, requested me to follow her. i obeyed, all in a tremble, and was conducted into another room. there i found my blessed darling stopping her ears behind the door, with her dear little face against the wall and jip in the platewarmer with his head tied up in a towel.

oh how beautiful she was in her black frock, and how she sobbed and cried at first, and wouldnt come out from behind the door

how fond we were of one another, when she did come out at last and what a state of bliss i was in, when we took jip out of the platewarmer, and restored him to the light, sneezing very much, and were all three reunited my dearest dora now, indeed, my own for ever

oh, dont pleaded dora. please

are you not my own for ever, dora

oh yes, of course i am cried dora, but i am so frightened

frightened, my own

oh yes i dont like him, said dora. why dont he go

who, my life

your friend, said dora. it isnt any business of his. what a stupid he must be

my love there never was anything so coaxing as her childish ways. he is the best creature

oh, but we dont want any best creatures pouted dora.

my dear, i argued, you will soon know him well, and like him of all things. and here is my aunt coming soon and youll like her of all things too, when you know her.

no, please dont bring her said dora, giving me a horrified little kiss, and folding her hands. dont. i know shes a naughty, mischiefmaking old thing dont let her come here, doady which was a corruption of david.

remonstrance was of no use, then so i laughed, and admired, and was very much in love and very happy and she showed me jips new trick of standing on his hind legs in a corner  which he did for about the space of a flash of lightning, and then fell down  and i dont know how long i should have stayed there, oblivious of traddles, if miss lavinia had not come in to take me away. miss lavinia was very fond of dora she told me dora was exactly like what she had been herself at her age  she must have altered a good deal, and she treated dora just as if she had been a toy. i wanted to persuade dora to come and see traddles, but on my proposing it she ran off to her own room and locked herself in so i went to traddles without her, and walked away with him on air.

nothing could be more satisfactory, said traddles and they are very agreeable old ladies, i am sure. i shouldnt be at all surprised if you were to be married years before me, copperfield.

does your sophy play on any instrument, traddles i inquired, in the pride of my heart.

she knows enough of the piano to teach it to her little sisters, said traddles.

does she sing at all i asked.

why, she sings ballads, sometimes, to freshen up the others a little when theyre out of spirits, said traddles. nothing scientific.

she doesnt sing to the guitar said i.

oh dear no said traddles.

paint at all

not at all, said traddles.

i promised traddles that he should hear dora sing, and see some of her flowerpainting. he said he should like it very much, and we went home arm in arm in great good humour and delight. i encouraged him to talk about sophy, on the way which he did with a loving reliance on her that i very much admired. i compared her in my mind with dora, with considerable inward satisfaction but i candidly admitted to myself that she seemed to be an excellent kind of girl for traddles, too.

of course my aunt was immediately made acquainted with the successful issue of the conference, and with all that had been said and done in the course of it. she was happy to see me so happy, and promised to call on doras aunts without loss of time. but she took such a long walk up and down our rooms that night, while i was writing to agnes, that i began to think she meant to walk till morning.

my letter to agnes was a fervent and grateful one, narrating all the good effects that had resulted from my following her advice.

she wrote, by return of post, to me. her letter was hopeful, earnest, and cheerful. she was always cheerful from that time.

i had my hands more full than ever, now. my daily journeys to highgate considered, putney was a long way off and i naturally wanted to go there as often as i could. the proposed teadrinkings being quite impracticable, i compounded with miss lavinia for permission to visit every saturday afternoon, without detriment to my privileged sundays. so, the close of every week was a delicious time for me and i got through the rest of the week by looking forward to it.

i was wonderfully relieved to find that my aunt and doras aunts rubbed on, all things considered, much more smoothly than i could have expected. my aunt made her promised visit within a few days of the conference and within a few more days, doras aunts called upon her, in due state and form. similar but more friendly exchanges took place afterwards, usually at intervals of three or four weeks. i know that my aunt distressed doras aunts very much, by utterly setting at naught the dignity of flyconveyance, and walking out to putney at extraordinary times, as shortly after breakfast or just before tea likewise by wearing her bonnet in any manner that happened to be comfortable to her head, without at all deferring to the prejudices of civilization on that subject. but doras aunts soon agreed to regard my aunt as an eccentric and somewhat masculine lady, with a strong understanding and although my aunt occasionally ruffled the feathers of doras aunts, by expressing heretical opinions on various points of ceremony, she loved me too well not to sacrifice some of her little peculiarities to the general harmony.

the only member of our small society who positively refused to adapt himself to circumstances, was jip. he never saw my aunt without immediately displaying every tooth in his head, retiring under a chair, and growling incessantly with now and then a doleful howl, as if she really were too much for his feelings. all kinds of treatment were tried with him, coaxing, scolding, slapping, bringing him to buckingham street where he instantly dashed at the two cats, to the terror of all beholders but he never could prevail upon himself to bear my aunts society. he would sometimes think he had got the better of his objection, and be amiable for a few minutes and then would put up his snub nose, and howl to that extent, that there was nothing for it but to blind him and put him in the platewarmer. at length, dora regularly muffled him in a towel and shut him up there, whenever my aunt was reported at the door.

one thing troubled me much, after we had fallen into this quiet train. it was, that dora seemed by one consent to be regarded like a pretty toy or plaything. my aunt, with whom she gradually became familiar, always called her little blossom and the pleasure of miss lavinias life was to wait upon her, curl her hair, make ornaments for her, and treat her like a pet child. what miss lavinia did, her sister did as a matter of course. it was very odd to me but they all seemed to treat dora, in her degree, much as dora treated jip in his.

i made up my mind to speak to dora about this and one day when we were out walking for we were licensed by miss lavinia, after a while, to go out walking by ourselves, i said to her that i wished she could get them to behave towards her differently.

because you know, my darling, i remonstrated, you are not a child.

there said dora. now youre going to be cross

cross, my love

i am sure theyre very kind to me, said dora, and i am very happy 

well but my dearest life said i, you might be very happy, and yet be treated rationally.

dora gave me a reproachful look  the prettiest look  and then began to sob, saying, if i didnt like her, why had i ever wanted so much to be engaged to her and why didnt i go away, now, if i couldnt bear her

what could i do, but kiss away her tears, and tell her how i doted on her, after that i am sure i am very affectionate, said dora you oughtnt to be cruel to me, doady

cruel, my precious love as if i would  or could  be cruel to you, for the world

then dont find fault with me, said dora, making a rosebud of her mouth and ill be good.

i was charmed by her presently asking me, of her own accord, to give her that cookerybook i had once spoken of, and to show her how to keep accounts as i had once promised i would. i brought the volume with me on my next visit i got it prettily bound, first, to make it look less dry and more inviting and as we strolled about the common, i showed her an old housekeepingbook of my aunts, and gave her a set of tablets, and a pretty little pencilcase and box of leads, to practise housekeeping with.

but the cookerybook made doras head ache, and the figures made her cry. they wouldnt add up, she said. so she rubbed them out, and drew little nosegays and likenesses of me and jip, all over the tablets.

then i playfully tried verbal instruction in domestic matters, as we walked about on a saturday afternoon. sometimes, for example, when we passed a butchers shop, i would say now suppose, my pet, that we were married, and you were going to buy a shoulder of mutton for dinner, would you know how to buy it

my pretty little doras face would fall, and she would make her mouth into a bud again, as if she would very much prefer to shut mine with a kiss.

would you know how to buy it, my darling i would repeat, perhaps, if i were very inflexible.

dora would think a little, and then reply, perhaps, with great triumph why, the butcher would know how to sell it, and what need i know

oh, you silly boy

so, when i once asked dora, with an eye to the cookerybook, what she would do, if we were married, and i were to say i should like a nice irish stew, she replied that she would tell the servant to make it and then clapped her little hands together across my arm, and laughed in such a charming manner that she was more delightful than ever.

consequently, the principal use to which the cookerybook was devoted, was being put down in the corner for jip to stand upon.

but dora was so pleased, when she had trained him to stand upon it without offering to come off, and at the same time to hold the pencilcase in his mouth, that i was very glad i had bought it.

and we fell back on the guitarcase, and the flowerpainting, and the songs about never leaving off dancing, ta ra la and were as happy as the week was long. i occasionally wished i could venture to hint to miss lavinia, that she treated the darling of my heart a little too much like a plaything and i sometimes awoke, as it were, wondering to find that i had fallen into the general fault, and treated her like a plaything too  but not often.



chapter 

mischief

i feel as if it were not for me to record, even though this manuscript is intended for no eyes but mine, how hard i worked at that tremendous shorthand, and all improvement appertaining to it, in my sense of responsibility to dora and her aunts. i will only add, to what i have already written of my perseverance at this time of my life, and of a patient and continuous energy which then began to be matured within me, and which i know to be the strong part of my character, if it have any strength at all, that there, on looking back, i find the source of my success. i have been very fortunate in worldly matters many men have worked much harder, and not succeeded half so well but i never could have done what i have done, without the habits of punctuality, order, and diligence, without the determination to concentrate myself on one object at a time, no matter how quickly its successor should come upon its heels, which i then formed. heaven knows i write this, in no spirit of selflaudation. the man who reviews his own life, as i do mine, in going on here, from page to page, had need to have been a good man indeed, if he would be spared the sharp consciousness of many talents neglected, many opportunities wasted, many erratic and perverted feelings constantly at war within his breast, and defeating him. i do not hold one natural gift, i dare say, that i have not abused. my meaning simply is, that whatever i have tried to do in life, i have tried with all my heart to do well that whatever i have devoted myself to, i have devoted myself to completely that in great aims and in small, i have always been thoroughly in earnest. i have never believed it possible that any natural or improved ability can claim immunity from the companionship of the steady, plain, hardworking qualities, and hope to gain its end. there is no such thing as such fulfilment on this earth. some happy talent, and some fortunate opportunity, may form the two sides of the ladder on which some men mount, but the rounds of that ladder must be made of stuff to stand wear and tear and there is no substitute for thoroughgoing, ardent, and sincere earnestness. never to put one hand to anything, on which i could throw my whole self and never to affect depreciation of my work, whatever it was i find, now, to have been my golden rules.

how much of the practice i have just reduced to precept, i owe to agnes, i will not repeat here. my narrative proceeds to agnes, with a thankful love.

she came on a visit of a fortnight to the doctors. mr. wickfield was the doctors old friend, and the doctor wished to talk with him, and do him good. it had been matter of conversation with agnes when she was last in town, and this visit was the result.

she and her father came together. i was not much surprised to hear from her that she had engaged to find a lodging in the neighbourhood for mrs. heep, whose rheumatic complaint required change of air, and who would be charmed to have it in such company.

neither was i surprised when, on the very next day, uriah, like a dutiful son, brought his worthy mother to take possession.

you see, master copperfield, said he, as he forced himself upon my company for a turn in the doctors garden, where a person loves, a person is a little jealous  leastways, anxious to keep an eye on the beloved one.

of whom are you jealous, now said i.

thanks to you, master copperfield, he returned, of no one in particular just at present  no male person, at least.

do you mean that you are jealous of a female person

he gave me a sidelong glance out of his sinister red eyes, and laughed.

really, master copperfield, he said,  i should say mister, but i know youll excuse the abit ive got into  youre so insinuating, that you draw me like a corkscrew well, i dont mind telling you, putting his fishlike hand on mine, im not a ladys man in general, sir, and i never was, with mrs. strong.

his eyes looked green now, as they watched mine with a rascally cunning.

what do you mean said i.

why, though i am a lawyer, master copperfield, he replied, with a dry grin, i mean, just at present, what i say.

and what do you mean by your look i retorted, quietly.

by my look dear me, copperfield, thats sharp practice what do i mean by my look

yes, said i. by your look.

he seemed very much amused, and laughed as heartily as it was in his nature to laugh. after some scraping of his chin with his hand, he went on to say, with his eyes cast downward  still scraping, very slowly when i was but an umble clerk, she always looked down upon me.

she was for ever having my agnes backwards and forwards at her ouse, and she was for ever being a friend to you, master copperfield but i was too far beneath her, myself, to be noticed.

well said i suppose you were

 and beneath him too, pursued uriah, very distinctly, and in a meditative tone of voice, as he continued to scrape his chin.

dont you know the doctor better, said i, than to suppose him conscious of your existence, when you were not before him

he directed his eyes at me in that sidelong glance again, and he made his face very lanternjawed, for the greater convenience of scraping, as he answered oh dear, i am not referring to the doctor oh no, poor man i mean mr. maldon

my heart quite died within me. all my old doubts and apprehensions on that subject, all the doctors happiness and peace, all the mingled possibilities of innocence and compromise, that i could not unravel, i saw, in a moment, at the mercy of this fellows twisting.

he never could come into the office, without ordering and shoving me about, said uriah. one of your fine gentlemen he was i was very meek and umble  and i am. but i didnt like that sort of thing  and i dont

he left off scraping his chin, and sucked in his cheeks until they seemed to meet inside keeping his sidelong glance upon me all the while.

she is one of your lovely women, she is, he pursued, when he had slowly restored his face to its natural form and ready to be no friend to such as me, i know. shes just the person as would put my agnes up to higher sort of game. now, i aint one of your ladys men, master copperfield but ive had eyes in my ed, a pretty long time back. we umble ones have got eyes, mostly speaking  and we look out of em.

i endeavoured to appear unconscious and not disquieted, but, i saw in his face, with poor success.

now, im not agoing to let myself be run down, copperfield, he continued, raising that part of his countenance, where his red eyebrows would have been if he had had any, with malignant triumph, and i shall do what i can to put a stop to this friendship. i dont approve of it. i dont mind acknowledging to you that ive got rather a grudging disposition, and want to keep off all intruders. i aint agoing, if i know it, to run the risk of being plotted against.

you are always plotting, and delude yourself into the belief that everybody else is doing the like, i think, said i.

perhaps so, master copperfield, he replied. but ive got a motive, as my fellowpartner used to say and i go at it tooth and nail. i mustnt be put upon, as a numble person, too much. i cant allow people in my way. really they must come out of the cart, master copperfield

i dont understand you, said i.

dont you, though he returned, with one of his jerks. im astonished at that, master copperfield, you being usually so quick

ill try to be plainer, another time.  is that mr. maldon anorseback, ringing at the gate, sir

it looks like him, i replied, as carelessly as i could.

uriah stopped short, put his hands between his great knobs of knees, and doubled himself up with laughter. with perfectly silent laughter. not a sound escaped from him. i was so repelled by his odious behaviour, particularly by this concluding instance, that i turned away without any ceremony and left him doubled up in the middle of the garden, like a scarecrow in want of support.

it was not on that evening but, as i well remember, on the next evening but one, which was a sunday that i took agnes to see dora.

i had arranged the visit, beforehand, with miss lavinia and agnes was expected to tea.

i was in a flutter of pride and anxiety pride in my dear little betrothed, and anxiety that agnes should like her. all the way to putney, agnes being inside the stagecoach, and i outside, i pictured dora to myself in every one of the pretty looks i knew so well now making up my mind that i should like her to look exactly as she looked at such a time, and then doubting whether i should not prefer her looking as she looked at such another time and almost worrying myself into a fever about it.

i was troubled by no doubt of her being very pretty, in any case but it fell out that i had never seen her look so well. she was not in the drawingroom when i presented agnes to her little aunts, but was shyly keeping out of the way. i knew where to look for her, now and sure enough i found her stopping her ears again, behind the same dull old door.

at first she wouldnt come at all and then she pleaded for five minutes by my watch. when at length she put her arm through mine, to be taken to the drawingroom, her charming little face was flushed, and had never been so pretty. but, when we went into the room, and it turned pale, she was ten thousand times prettier yet.

dora was afraid of agnes. she had told me that she knew agnes was too clever. but when she saw her looking at once so cheerful and so earnest, and so thoughtful, and so good, she gave a faint little cry of pleased surprise, and just put her affectionate arms round agness neck, and laid her innocent cheek against her face.

i never was so happy. i never was so pleased as when i saw those two sit down together, side by side. as when i saw my little darling looking up so naturally to those cordial eyes. as when i saw the tender, beautiful regard which agnes cast upon her.

miss lavinia and miss clarissa partook, in their way, of my joy.

it was the pleasantest teatable in the world. miss clarissa presided. i cut and handed the sweet seedcake  the little sisters had a birdlike fondness for picking up seeds and pecking at sugar miss lavinia looked on with benignant patronage, as if our happy love were all her work and we were perfectly contented with ourselves and one another.

the gentle cheerfulness of agnes went to all their hearts. her quiet interest in everything that interested dora her manner of making acquaintance with jip who responded instantly her pleasant way, when dora was ashamed to come over to her usual seat by me her modest grace and ease, eliciting a crowd of blushing little marks of confidence from dora seemed to make our circle quite complete.

i am so glad, said dora, after tea, that you like me. i didnt think you would and i want, more than ever, to be liked, now julia mills is gone.

i have omitted to mention it, by the by. miss mills had sailed, and dora and i had gone aboard a great east indiaman at gravesend to see her and we had had preserved ginger, and guava, and other delicacies of that sort for lunch and we had left miss mills weeping on a campstool on the quarterdeck, with a large new diary under her arm, in which the original reflections awakened by the contemplation of ocean were to be recorded under lock and key.

agnes said she was afraid i must have given her an unpromising character but dora corrected that directly.

oh no she said, shaking her curls at me it was all praise. he thinks so much of your opinion, that i was quite afraid of it.

my good opinion cannot strengthen his attachment to some people whom he knows, said agnes, with a smile it is not worth their having.

but please let me have it, said dora, in her coaxing way, if you can

we made merry about doras wanting to be liked, and dora said i was a goose, and she didnt like me at any rate, and the short evening flew away on gossamerwings. the time was at hand when the coach was to call for us. i was standing alone before the fire, when dora came stealing softly in, to give me that usual precious little kiss before i went.

dont you think, if i had had her for a friend a long time ago, doady, said dora, her bright eyes shining very brightly, and her little right hand idly busying itself with one of the buttons of my coat, i might have been more clever perhaps

my love said i, what nonsense

do you think it is nonsense returned dora, without looking at me. are you sure it is

of course i am

i have forgotten, said dora, still turning the button round and round, what relation agnes is to you, you dear bad boy.

no bloodrelation, i replied but we were brought up together, like brother and sister.

i wonder why you ever fell in love with me said dora, beginning on another button of my coat.

perhaps because i couldnt see you, and not love you, dora

suppose you had never seen me at all, said dora, going to another button.

suppose we had never been born said i, gaily.

i wondered what she was thinking about, as i glanced in admiring silence at the little soft hand travelling up the row of buttons on my coat, and at the clustering hair that lay against my breast, and at the lashes of her downcast eyes, slightly rising as they followed her idle fingers. at length her eyes were lifted up to mine, and she stood on tiptoe to give me, more thoughtfully than usual, that precious little kiss  once, twice, three times  and went out of the room.

they all came back together within five minutes afterwards, and doras unusual thoughtfulness was quite gone then. she was laughingly resolved to put jip through the whole of his performances, before the coach came. they took some time not so much on account of their variety, as jips reluctance, and were still unfinished when it was heard at the door. there was a hurried but affectionate parting between agnes and herself and dora was to write to agnes who was not to mind her letters being foolish, she said, and agnes was to write to dora and they had a second parting at the coach door, and a third when dora, in spite of the remonstrances of miss lavinia, would come running out once more to remind agnes at the coach window about writing, and to shake her curls at me on the box.

the stagecoach was to put us down near covent garden, where we were to take another stagecoach for highgate. i was impatient for the short walk in the interval, that agnes might praise dora to me.

ah what praise it was how lovingly and fervently did it commend the pretty creature i had won, with all her artless graces best displayed, to my most gentle care how thoughtfully remind me, yet with no pretence of doing so, of the trust in which i held the orphan child

never, never, had i loved dora so deeply and truly, as i loved her that night. when we had again alighted, and were walking in the starlight along the quiet road that led to the doctors house, i told agnes it was her doing.

when you were sitting by her, said i, you seemed to be no less her guardian angel than mine and you seem so now, agnes.

a poor angel, she returned, but faithful.

the clear tone of her voice, going straight to my heart, made it natural to me to say the cheerfulness that belongs to you, agnes and to no one else that ever i have seen, is so restored, i have observed today, that i have begun to hope you are happier at home

i am happier in myself, she said i am quite cheerful and lighthearted.

i glanced at the serene face looking upward, and thought it was the stars that made it seem so noble.

there has been no change at home, said agnes, after a few moments.

no fresh reference, said i, to  i wouldnt distress you, agnes, but i cannot help asking  to what we spoke of, when we parted last

no, none, she answered.

i have thought so much about it.

you must think less about it. remember that i confide in simple love and truth at last. have no apprehensions for me, trotwood, she added, after a moment the step you dread my taking, i shall never take.

although i think i had never really feared it, in any season of cool reflection, it was an unspeakable relief to me to have this assurance from her own truthful lips. i told her so, earnestly.

and when this visit is over, said i,  for we may not be alone another time,  how long is it likely to be, my dear agnes, before you come to london again

probably a long time, she replied i think it will be best  for papas sake  to remain at home. we are not likely to meet often, for some time to come but i shall be a good correspondent of doras, and we shall frequently hear of one another that way.

we were now within the little courtyard of the doctors cottage.

it was growing late. there was a light in the window of mrs.

strongs chamber, and agnes, pointing to it, bade me good night.

do not be troubled, she said, giving me her hand, by our misfortunes and anxieties. i can be happier in nothing than in your happiness. if you can ever give me help, rely upon it i will ask you for it. god bless you always

in her beaming smile, and in these last tones of her cheerful voice, i seemed again to see and hear my little dora in her company. i stood awhile, looking through the porch at the stars, with a heart full of love and gratitude, and then walked slowly forth. i had engaged a bed at a decent alehouse close by, and was going out at the gate, when, happening to turn my head, i saw a light in the doctors study. a halfreproachful fancy came into my mind, that he had been working at the dictionary without my help.

with the view of seeing if this were so, and, in any case, of bidding him good night, if he were yet sitting among his books, i turned back, and going softly across the hall, and gently opening the door, looked in.

the first person whom i saw, to my surprise, by the sober light of the shaded lamp, was uriah. he was standing close beside it, with one of his skeleton hands over his mouth, and the other resting on the doctors table. the doctor sat in his study chair, covering his face with his hands. mr. wickfield, sorely troubled and distressed, was leaning forward, irresolutely touching the doctors arm.

for an instant, i supposed that the doctor was ill. i hastily advanced a step under that impression, when i met uriahs eye, and saw what was the matter. i would have withdrawn, but the doctor made a gesture to detain me, and i remained.

at any rate, observed uriah, with a writhe of his ungainly person, we may keep the door shut. we neednt make it known to all the town.

saying which, he went on his toes to the door, which i had left open, and carefully closed it. he then came back, and took up his former position. there was an obtrusive show of compassionate zeal in his voice and manner, more intolerable  at least to me  than any demeanour he could have assumed.

i have felt it incumbent upon me, master copperfield, said uriah, to point out to doctor strong what you and me have already talked about. you didnt exactly understand me, though

i gave him a look, but no other answer and, going to my good old master, said a few words that i meant to be words of comfort and encouragement. he put his hand upon my shoulder, as it had been his custom to do when i was quite a little fellow, but did not lift his grey head.

as you didnt understand me, master copperfield, resumed uriah in the same officious manner, i may take the liberty of umbly mentioning, being among friends, that i have called doctor strongs attention to the goingson of mrs. strong. its much against the grain with me, i assure you, copperfield, to be concerned in anything so unpleasant but really, as it is, were all mixing ourselves up with what oughtnt to be. that was what my meaning was, sir, when you didnt understand me.

i wonder now, when i recall his leer, that i did not collar him, and try to shake the breath out of his body.

i dare say i didnt make myself very clear, he went on, nor you neither. naturally, we was both of us inclined to give such a subject a wide berth. howsever, at last i have made up my mind to speak plain and i have mentioned to doctor strong that  did you speak, sir

this was to the doctor, who had moaned. the sound might have touched any heart, i thought, but it had no effect upon uriahs.

 mentioned to doctor strong, he proceeded, that anyone may see that mr. maldon, and the lovely and agreeable lady as is doctor strongs wife, are too sweet on one another. really the time is come we being at present all mixing ourselves up with what oughtnt to be, when doctor strong must be told that this was full as plain to everybody as the sun, before mr. maldon went to india that mr. maldon made excuses to come back, for nothing else and that hes always here, for nothing else. when you come in, sir, i was just putting it to my fellowpartner, towards whom he turned, to say to doctor strong upon his word and honour, whether hed ever been of this opinion long ago, or not. come, mr. wickfield, sir would you be so good as tell us yes or no, sir come, partner

for gods sake, my dear doctor, said mr. wickfield again laying his irresolute hand upon the doctors arm, dont attach too much weight to any suspicions i may have entertained.

there cried uriah, shaking his head. what a melancholy confirmation aint it him such an old friend bless your soul, when i was nothing but a clerk in his office, copperfield, ive seen him twenty times, if ive seen him once, quite in a taking about it  quite put out, you know and very proper in him as a father im sure i cant blame him, to think that miss agnes was mixing herself up with what oughtnt to be.

my dear strong, said mr. wickfield in a tremulous voice, my good friend, i neednt tell you that it has been my vice to look for some one master motive in everybody, and to try all actions by one narrow test. i may have fallen into such doubts as i have had, through this mistake.

you have had doubts, wickfield, said the doctor, without lifting up his head. you have had doubts.

speak up, fellowpartner, urged uriah.

i had, at one time, certainly, said mr. wickfield. i  god forgive me  i thought you had.

no, no, no returned the doctor, in a tone of most pathetic grief.

i thought, at one time, said mr. wickfield, that you wished to send maldon abroad to effect a desirable separation.

no, no, no returned the doctor. to give annie pleasure, by making some provision for the companion of her childhood. nothing else.

so i found, said mr. wickfield. i couldnt doubt it, when you told me so. but i thought  i implore you to remember the narrow construction which has been my besetting sin  that, in a case where there was so much disparity in point of years 

thats the way to put it, you see, master copperfield observed uriah, with fawning and offensive pity.

 a lady of such youth, and such attractions, however real her respect for you, might have been influenced in marrying, by worldly considerations only. i make no allowance for innumerable feelings and circumstances that may have all tended to good. for heavens sake remember that

how kind he puts it said uriah, shaking his head.

always observing her from one point of view, said mr. wickfield but by all that is dear to you, my old friend, i entreat you to consider what it was i am forced to confess now, having no escape 

no theres no way out of it, mr. wickfield, sir, observed uriah, when its got to this.

 that i did, said mr. wickfield, glancing helplessly and distractedly at his partner, that i did doubt her, and think her wanting in her duty to you and that i did sometimes, if i must say all, feel averse to agnes being in such a familiar relation towards her, as to see what i saw, or in my diseased theory fancied that i saw. i never mentioned this to anyone. i never meant it to be known to anyone. and though it is terrible to you to hear, said mr. wickfield, quite subdued, if you knew how terrible it is for me to tell, you would feel compassion for me

the doctor, in the perfect goodness of his nature, put out his hand. mr. wickfield held it for a little while in his, with his head bowed down.

i am sure, said uriah, writhing himself into the silence like a congereel, that this is a subject full of unpleasantness to everybody. but since we have got so far, i ought to take the liberty of mentioning that copperfield has noticed it too.

i turned upon him, and asked him how he dared refer to me oh its very kind of you, copperfield, returned uriah, undulating all over, and we all know what an amiable character yours is but you know that the moment i spoke to you the other night, you knew what i meant. you know you knew what i meant, copperfield. dont deny it you deny it with the best intentions but dont do it, copperfield.

i saw the mild eye of the good old doctor turned upon me for a moment, and i felt that the confession of my old misgivings and remembrances was too plainly written in my face to be overlooked.

it was of no use raging. i could not undo that. say what i would, i could not unsay it.

we were silent again, and remained so, until the doctor rose and walked twice or thrice across the room. presently he returned to where his chair stood and, leaning on the back of it, and occasionally putting his handkerchief to his eyes, with a simple honesty that did him more honour, to my thinking, than any disguise he could have effected, said i have been much to blame. i believe i have been very much to blame. i have exposed one whom i hold in my heart, to trials and aspersions  i call them aspersions, even to have been conceived in anybodys inmost mind  of which she never, but for me, could have been the object.

uriah heep gave a kind of snivel. i think to express sympathy.

of which my annie, said the doctor, never, but for me, could have been the object. gentlemen, i am old now, as you know i do not feel, tonight, that i have much to live for. but my life  my life  upon the truth and honour of the dear lady who has been the subject of this conversation

i do not think that the best embodiment of chivalry, the realization of the handsomest and most romantic figure ever imagined by painter, could have said this, with a more impressive and affecting dignity than the plain old doctor did.

but i am not prepared, he went on, to deny  perhaps i may have been, without knowing it, in some degree prepared to admit  that i may have unwittingly ensnared that lady into an unhappy marriage.

i am a man quite unaccustomed to observe and i cannot but believe that the observation of several people, of different ages and positions, all too plainly tending in one direction and that so natural, is better than mine.

i had often admired, as i have elsewhere described, his benignant manner towards his youthful wife but the respectful tenderness he manifested in every reference to her on this occasion, and the almost reverential manner in which he put away from him the lightest doubt of her integrity, exalted him, in my eyes, beyond description.

i married that lady, said the doctor, when she was extremely young. i took her to myself when her character was scarcely formed. so far as it was developed, it had been my happiness to form it. i knew her father well. i knew her well. i had taught her what i could, for the love of all her beautiful and virtuous qualities. if i did her wrong as i fear i did, in taking advantage but i never meant it of her gratitude and her affection i ask pardon of that lady, in my heart

he walked across the room, and came back to the same place holding the chair with a grasp that trembled, like his subdued voice, in its earnestness.

i regarded myself as a refuge, for her, from the dangers and vicissitudes of life. i persuaded myself that, unequal though we were in years, she would live tranquilly and contentedly with me.

i did not shut out of my consideration the time when i should leave her free, and still young and still beautiful, but with her judgement more matured  no, gentlemen  upon my truth

his homely figure seemed to be lightened up by his fidelity and generosity. every word he uttered had a force that no other grace could have imparted to it.

my life with this lady has been very happy. until tonight, i have had uninterrupted occasion to bless the day on which i did her great injustice.

his voice, more and more faltering in the utterance of these words, stopped for a few moments then he went on once awakened from my dream  i have been a poor dreamer, in one way or other, all my life  i see how natural it is that she should have some regretful feeling towards her old companion and her equal. that she does regard him with some innocent regret, with some blameless thoughts of what might have been, but for me, is, i fear, too true. much that i have seen, but not noted, has come back upon me with new meaning, during this last trying hour. but, beyond this, gentlemen, the dear ladys name never must be coupled with a word, a breath, of doubt.

for a little while, his eye kindled and his voice was firm for a little while he was again silent. presently, he proceeded as before it only remains for me, to bear the knowledge of the unhappiness i have occasioned, as submissively as i can. it is she who should reproach not i. to save her from misconstruction, cruel misconstruction, that even my friends have not been able to avoid, becomes my duty. the more retired we live, the better i shall discharge it. and when the time comes  may it come soon, if it be his merciful pleasure  when my death shall release her from constraint, i shall close my eyes upon her honoured face, with unbounded confidence and love and leave her, with no sorrow then, to happier and brighter days.

i could not see him for the tears which his earnestness and goodness, so adorned by, and so adorning, the perfect simplicity of his manner, brought into my eyes. he had moved to the door, when he added gentlemen, i have shown you my heart. i am sure you will respect it. what we have said tonight is never to be said more.

wickfield, give me an old friends arm upstairs

mr. wickfield hastened to him. without interchanging a word they went slowly out of the room together, uriah looking after them.

well, master copperfield said uriah, meekly turning to me. the thing hasnt took quite the turn that might have been expected, for the old scholar  what an excellent man  is as blind as a brickbat but this familys out of the cart, i think

i needed but the sound of his voice to be so madly enraged as i never was before, and never have been since.

you villain, said i, what do you mean by entrapping me into your schemes how dare you appeal to me just now, you false rascal, as if we had been in discussion together

as we stood, front to front, i saw so plainly, in the stealthy exultation of his face, what i already so plainly knew i mean that he forced his confidence upon me, expressly to make me miserable, and had set a deliberate trap for me in this very matter that i couldnt bear it. the whole of his lank cheek was invitingly before me, and i struck it with my open hand with that force that my fingers tingled as if i had burnt them.

he caught the hand in his, and we stood in that connexion, looking at each other. we stood so, a long time long enough for me to see the white marks of my fingers die out of the deep red of his cheek, and leave it a deeper red.

copperfield, he said at length, in a breathless voice, have you taken leave of your senses

i have taken leave of you, said i, wresting my hand away. you dog, ill know no more of you.

wont you said he, constrained by the pain of his cheek to put his hand there. perhaps you wont be able to help it. isnt this ungrateful of you, now

i have shown you often enough, said i, that i despise you. i have shown you now, more plainly, that i do. why should i dread your doing your worst to all about you what else do you ever do

he perfectly understood this allusion to the considerations that had hitherto restrained me in my communications with him. i rather think that neither the blow, nor the allusion, would have escaped me, but for the assurance i had had from agnes that night. it is no matter.

there was another long pause. his eyes, as he looked at me, seemed to take every shade of colour that could make eyes ugly.

copperfield, he said, removing his hand from his cheek, you have always gone against me. i know you always used to be against me at mr. wickfields.

you may think what you like, said i, still in a towering rage.

if it is not true, so much the worthier you.

and yet i always liked you, copperfield he rejoined.

i deigned to make him no reply and, taking up my hat, was going out to bed, when he came between me and the door.

copperfield, he said, there must be two parties to a quarrel.

i wont be one.

you may go to the devil said i.

dont say that he replied. i know youll be sorry afterwards.

how can you make yourself so inferior to me, as to show such a bad spirit but i forgive you.

you forgive me i repeated disdainfully.

i do, and you cant help yourself, replied uriah. to think of your going and attacking me, that have always been a friend to you

but there cant be a quarrel without two parties, and i wont be one. i will be a friend to you, in spite of you. so now you know what youve got to expect.

the necessity of carrying on this dialogue his part in which was very slow mine very quick in a low tone, that the house might not be disturbed at an unseasonable hour, did not improve my temper though my passion was cooling down. merely telling him that i should expect from him what i always had expected, and had never yet been disappointed in, i opened the door upon him, as if he had been a great walnut put there to be cracked, and went out of the house. but he slept out of the house too, at his mothers lodging and before i had gone many hundred yards, came up with me.

you know, copperfield, he said, in my ear i did not turn my head, youre in quite a wrong position which i felt to be true, and that made me chafe the more you cant make this a brave thing, and you cant help being forgiven. i dont intend to mention it to mother, nor to any living soul. im determined to forgive you. but i do wonder that you should lift your hand against a person that you knew to be so umble

i felt only less mean than he. he knew me better than i knew myself. if he had retorted or openly exasperated me, it would have been a relief and a justification but he had put me on a slow fire, on which i lay tormented half the night.

in the morning, when i came out, the early churchbell was ringing, and he was walking up and down with his mother. he addressed me as if nothing had happened, and i could do no less than reply. i had struck him hard enough to give him the toothache, i suppose. at all events his face was tied up in a black silk handkerchief, which, with his hat perched on the top of it, was far from improving his appearance. i heard that he went to a dentists in london on the monday morning, and had a tooth out. i hope it was a double one.

the doctor gave out that he was not quite well and remained alone, for a considerable part of every day, during the remainder of the visit. agnes and her father had been gone a week, before we resumed our usual work. on the day preceding its resumption, the doctor gave me with his own hands a folded note not sealed. it was addressed to myself and laid an injunction on me, in a few affectionate words, never to refer to the subject of that evening.

i had confided it to my aunt, but to no one else. it was not a subject i could discuss with agnes, and agnes certainly had not the least suspicion of what had passed.

neither, i felt convinced, had mrs. strong then. several weeks elapsed before i saw the least change in her. it came on slowly, like a cloud when there is no wind. at first, she seemed to wonder at the gentle compassion with which the doctor spoke to her, and at his wish that she should have her mother with her, to relieve the dull monotony of her life. often, when we were at work, and she was sitting by, i would see her pausing and looking at him with that memorable face. afterwards, i sometimes observed her rise, with her eyes full of tears, and go out of the room. gradually, an unhappy shadow fell upon her beauty, and deepened every day. mrs.

markleham was a regular inmate of the cottage then but she talked and talked, and saw nothing.

as this change stole on annie, once like sunshine in the doctors house, the doctor became older in appearance, and more grave but the sweetness of his temper, the placid kindness of his manner, and his benevolent solicitude for her, if they were capable of any increase, were increased. i saw him once, early on the morning of her birthday, when she came to sit in the window while we were at work which she had always done, but now began to do with a timid and uncertain air that i thought very touching, take her forehead between his hands, kiss it, and go hurriedly away, too much moved to remain. i saw her stand where he had left her, like a statue and then bend down her head, and clasp her hands, and weep, i cannot say how sorrowfully.

sometimes, after that, i fancied that she tried to speak even to me, in intervals when we were left alone. but she never uttered a word. the doctor always had some new project for her participating in amusements away from home, with her mother and mrs. markleham, who was very fond of amusements, and very easily dissatisfied with anything else, entered into them with great goodwill, and was loud in her commendations. but annie, in a spiritless unhappy way, only went whither she was led, and seemed to have no care for anything.

i did not know what to think. neither did my aunt who must have walked, at various times, a hundred miles in her uncertainty. what was strangest of all was, that the only real relief which seemed to make its way into the secret region of this domestic unhappiness, made its way there in the person of mr. dick.

what his thoughts were on the subject, or what his observation was, i am as unable to explain, as i dare say he would have been to assist me in the task. but, as i have recorded in the narrative of my school days, his veneration for the doctor was unbounded and there is a subtlety of perception in real attachment, even when it is borne towards man by one of the lower animals, which leaves the highest intellect behind. to this mind of the heart, if i may call it so, in mr. dick, some bright ray of the truth shot straight.

he had proudly resumed his privilege, in many of his spare hours, of walking up and down the garden with the doctor as he had been accustomed to pace up and down the doctors walk at canterbury.

but matters were no sooner in this state, than he devoted all his spare time and got up earlier to make it more to these perambulations. if he had never been so happy as when the doctor read that marvellous performance, the dictionary, to him he was now quite miserable unless the doctor pulled it out of his pocket, and began. when the doctor and i were engaged, he now fell into the custom of walking up and down with mrs. strong, and helping her to trim her favourite flowers, or weed the beds. i dare say he rarely spoke a dozen words in an hour but his quiet interest, and his wistful face, found immediate response in both their breasts each knew that the other liked him, and that he loved both and he became what no one else could be  a link between them.

when i think of him, with his impenetrably wise face, walking up and down with the doctor, delighted to be battered by the hard words in the dictionary when i think of him carrying huge wateringpots after annie kneeling down, in very paws of gloves, at patient microscopic work among the little leaves expressing as no philosopher could have expressed, in everything he did, a delicate desire to be her friend showering sympathy, trustfulness, and affection, out of every hole in the wateringpot when i think of him never wandering in that better mind of his to which unhappiness addressed itself, never bringing the unfortunate king charles into the garden, never wavering in his grateful service, never diverted from his knowledge that there was something wrong, or from his wish to set it right i really feel almost ashamed of having known that he was not quite in his wits, taking account of the utmost i have done with mine.

nobody but myself, trot, knows what that man is my aunt would proudly remark, when we conversed about it. dick will distinguish himself yet

i must refer to one other topic before i close this chapter. while the visit at the doctors was still in progress, i observed that the postman brought two or three letters every morning for uriah heep, who remained at highgate until the rest went back, it being a leisure time and that these were always directed in a businesslike manner by mr. micawber, who now assumed a round legal hand. i was glad to infer, from these slight premises, that mr.

micawber was doing well and consequently was much surprised to receive, about this time, the following letter from his amiable wife.


canterbury, monday evening.

you will doubtless be surprised, my dear mr. copperfield, to receive this communication. still more so, by its contents. still more so, by the stipulation of implicit confidence which i beg to impose. but my feelings as a wife and mother require relief and as i do not wish to consult my family already obnoxious to the feelings of mr. micawber, i know no one of whom i can better ask advice than my friend and former lodger.

you may be aware, my dear mr. copperfield, that between myself and mr. micawber whom i will never desert, there has always been preserved a spirit of mutual confidence. mr. micawber may have occasionally given a bill without consulting me, or he may have misled me as to the period when that obligation would become due.

this has actually happened. but, in general, mr. micawber has had no secrets from the bosom of affection  i allude to his wife  and has invariably, on our retirement to rest, recalled the events of the day.

you will picture to yourself, my dear mr. copperfield, what the poignancy of my feelings must be, when i inform you that mr.

micawber is entirely changed. he is reserved. he is secret. his life is a mystery to the partner of his joys and sorrows  i again allude to his wife  and if i should assure you that beyond knowing that it is passed from morning to night at the office, i now know less of it than i do of the man in the south, connected with whose mouth the thoughtless children repeat an idle tale respecting cold plum porridge, i should adopt a popular fallacy to express an actual fact.

but this is not all. mr. micawber is morose. he is severe. he is estranged from our eldest son and daughter, he has no pride in his twins, he looks with an eye of coldness even on the unoffending stranger who last became a member of our circle. the pecuniary means of meeting our expenses, kept down to the utmost farthing, are obtained from him with great difficulty, and even under fearful threats that he will settle himself the exact expression and he inexorably refuses to give any explanation whatever of this distracting policy.

this is hard to bear. this is heartbreaking. if you will advise me, knowing my feeble powers such as they are, how you think it will be best to exert them in a dilemma so unwonted, you will add another friendly obligation to the many you have already rendered me. with loves from the children, and a smile from the happilyunconscious stranger, i remain, dear mr. copperfield, your afflicted, emma micawber.


i did not feel justified in giving a wife of mrs. micawbers experience any other recommendation, than that she should try to reclaim mr. micawber by patience and kindness as i knew she would in any case but the letter set me thinking about him very much.



chapter 

another retrospect

once again, let me pause upon a memorable period of my life. let me stand aside, to see the phantoms of those days go by me, accompanying the shadow of myself, in dim procession.

weeks, months, seasons, pass along. they seem little more than a summer day and a winter evening. now, the common where i walk with dora is all in bloom, a field of bright gold and now the unseen heather lies in mounds and bunches underneath a covering of snow.

in a breath, the river that flows through our sunday walks is sparkling in the summer sun, is ruffled by the winter wind, or thickened with drifting heaps of ice. faster than ever river ran towards the sea, it flashes, darkens, and rolls away.

not a thread changes, in the house of the two little birdlike ladies. the clock ticks over the fireplace, the weatherglass hangs in the hall. neither clock nor weatherglass is ever right but we believe in both, devoutly.

i have come legally to mans estate. i have attained the dignity of twentyone. but this is a sort of dignity that may be thrust upon one. let me think what i have achieved.

i have tamed that savage stenographic mystery. i make a respectable income by it. i am in high repute for my accomplishment in all pertaining to the art, and am joined with eleven others in reporting the debates in parliament for a morning newspaper. night after night, i record predictions that never come to pass, professions that are never fulfilled, explanations that are only meant to mystify. i wallow in words. britannia, that unfortunate female, is always before me, like a trussed fowl skewered through and through with officepens, and bound hand and foot with red tape. i am sufficiently behind the scenes to know the worth of political life. i am quite an infidel about it, and shall never be converted.

my dear old traddles has tried his hand at the same pursuit, but it is not in traddless way. he is perfectly goodhumoured respecting his failure, and reminds me that he always did consider himself slow. he has occasional employment on the same newspaper, in getting up the facts of dry subjects, to be written about and embellished by more fertile minds. he is called to the bar and with admirable industry and selfdenial has scraped another hundred pounds together, to fee a conveyancer whose chambers he attends.

a great deal of very hot port wine was consumed at his call and, considering the figure, i should think the inner temple must have made a profit by it.

i have come out in another way. i have taken with fear and trembling to authorship. i wrote a little something, in secret, and sent it to a magazine, and it was published in the magazine.

since then, i have taken heart to write a good many trifling pieces. now, i am regularly paid for them. altogether, i am well off, when i tell my income on the fingers of my left hand, i pass the third finger and take in the fourth to the middle joint.

we have removed, from buckingham street, to a pleasant little cottage very near the one i looked at, when my enthusiasm first came on. my aunt, however who has sold the house at dover, to good advantage, is not going to remain here, but intends removing herself to a still more tiny cottage close at hand. what does this portend my marriage yes

yes i am going to be married to dora miss lavinia and miss clarissa have given their consent and if ever canary birds were in a flutter, they are. miss lavinia, selfcharged with the superintendence of my darlings wardrobe, is constantly cutting out brownpaper cuirasses, and differing in opinion from a highly respectable young man, with a long bundle, and a yard measure under his arm. a dressmaker, always stabbed in the breast with a needle and thread, boards and lodges in the house and seems to me, eating, drinking, or sleeping, never to take her thimble off. they make a layfigure of my dear. they are always sending for her to come and try something on. we cant be happy together for five minutes in the evening, but some intrusive female knocks at the door, and says, oh, if you please, miss dora, would you step upstairs

miss clarissa and my aunt roam all over london, to find out articles of furniture for dora and me to look at. it would be better for them to buy the goods at once, without this ceremony of inspection for, when we go to see a kitchen fender and meatscreen, dora sees a chinese house for jip, with little bells on the top, and prefers that. and it takes a long time to accustom jip to his new residence, after we have bought it whenever he goes in or out, he makes all the little bells ring, and is horribly frightened.

peggotty comes up to make herself useful, and falls to work immediately. her department appears to be, to clean everything over and over again. she rubs everything that can be rubbed, until it shines, like her own honest forehead, with perpetual friction.

and now it is, that i begin to see her solitary brother passing through the dark streets at night, and looking, as he goes, among the wandering faces. i never speak to him at such an hour. i know too well, as his grave figure passes onward, what he seeks, and what he dreads.

why does traddles look so important when he calls upon me this afternoon in the commons  where i still occasionally attend, for forms sake, when i have time the realization of my boyish daydreams is at hand. i am going to take out the licence.

it is a little document to do so much and traddles contemplates it, as it lies upon my desk, half in admiration, half in awe.

there are the names, in the sweet old visionary connexion, david copperfield and dora spenlow and there, in the corner, is that parental institution, the stamp office, which is so benignantly interested in the various transactions of human life, looking down upon our union and there is the archbishop of canterbury invoking a blessing on us in print, and doing it as cheap as could possibly be expected.

nevertheless, i am in a dream, a flustered, happy, hurried dream.

i cant believe that it is going to be and yet i cant believe but that everyone i pass in the street, must have some kind of perception, that i am to be married the day after tomorrow. the surrogate knows me, when i go down to be sworn and disposes of me easily, as if there were a masonic understanding between us.

traddles is not at all wanted, but is in attendance as my general backer.

i hope the next time you come here, my dear fellow, i say to traddles, it will be on the same errand for yourself. and i hope it will be soon.

thank you for your good wishes, my dear copperfield, he replies.

i hope so too. its a satisfaction to know that shell wait for me any length of time, and that she really is the dearest girl 

when are you to meet her at the coach i ask.

at seven, says traddles, looking at his plain old silver watch  the very watch he once took a wheel out of, at school, to make a watermill. that is about miss wickfields time, is it not

a little earlier. her time is half past eight.

i assure you, my dear boy, says traddles, i am almost as pleased as if i were going to be married myself, to think that this event is coming to such a happy termination. and really the great friendship and consideration of personally associating sophy with the joyful occasion, and inviting her to be a bridesmaid in conjunction with miss wickfield, demands my warmest thanks. i am extremely sensible of it.

i hear him, and shake hands with him and we talk, and walk, and dine, and so on but i dont believe it. nothing is real.

sophy arrives at the house of doras aunts, in due course. she has the most agreeable of faces,  not absolutely beautiful, but extraordinarily pleasant,  and is one of the most genial, unaffected, frank, engaging creatures i have ever seen. traddles presents her to us with great pride and rubs his hands for ten minutes by the clock, with every individual hair upon his head standing on tiptoe, when i congratulate him in a corner on his choice.

i have brought agnes from the canterbury coach, and her cheerful and beautiful face is among us for the second time. agnes has a great liking for traddles, and it is capital to see them meet, and to observe the glory of traddles as he commends the dearest girl in the world to her acquaintance.

still i dont believe it. we have a delightful evening, and are supremely happy but i dont believe it yet. i cant collect myself. i cant check off my happiness as it takes place. i feel in a misty and unsettled kind of state as if i had got up very early in the morning a week or two ago, and had never been to bed since. i cant make out when yesterday was. i seem to have been carrying the licence about, in my pocket, many months.

next day, too, when we all go in a flock to see the house  our house  doras and mine  i am quite unable to regard myself as its master. i seem to be there, by permission of somebody else. i half expect the real master to come home presently, and say he is glad to see me. such a beautiful little house as it is, with everything so bright and new with the flowers on the carpets looking as if freshly gathered, and the green leaves on the paper as if they had just come out with the spotless muslin curtains, and the blushing rosecoloured furniture, and doras garden hat with the blue ribbon  do i remember, now, how i loved her in such another hat when i first knew her  already hanging on its little peg the guitarcase quite at home on its heels in a corner and everybody tumbling over jips pagoda, which is much too big for the establishment. another happy evening, quite as unreal as all the rest of it, and i steal into the usual room before going away.

dora is not there. i suppose they have not done trying on yet.

miss lavinia peeps in, and tells me mysteriously that she will not be long. she is rather long, notwithstanding but by and by i hear a rustling at the door, and someone taps.

i say, come in but someone taps again.

i go to the door, wondering who it is there, i meet a pair of bright eyes, and a blushing face they are doras eyes and face, and miss lavinia has dressed her in tomorrows dress, bonnet and all, for me to see. i take my little wife to my heart and miss lavinia gives a little scream because i tumble the bonnet, and dora laughs and cries at once, because i am so pleased and i believe it less than ever.

do you think it pretty, doady says dora.

pretty i should rather think i did.

and are you sure you like me very much says dora.

the topic is fraught with such danger to the bonnet, that miss lavinia gives another little scream, and begs me to understand that dora is only to be looked at, and on no account to be touched. so dora stands in a delightful state of confusion for a minute or two, to be admired and then takes off her bonnet  looking so natural without it  and runs away with it in her hand and comes dancing down again in her own familiar dress, and asks jip if i have got a beautiful little wife, and whether hell forgive her for being married, and kneels down to make him stand upon the cookerybook, for the last time in her single life.

i go home, more incredulous than ever, to a lodging that i have hard by and get up very early in the morning, to ride to the highgate road and fetch my aunt.

i have never seen my aunt in such state. she is dressed in lavendercoloured silk, and has a white bonnet on, and is amazing.

janet has dressed her, and is there to look at me. peggotty is ready to go to church, intending to behold the ceremony from the gallery. mr. dick, who is to give my darling to me at the altar, has had his hair curled. traddles, whom i have taken up by appointment at the turnpike, presents a dazzling combination of cream colour and light blue and both he and mr. dick have a general effect about them of being all gloves.

no doubt i see this, because i know it is so but i am astray, and seem to see nothing. nor do i believe anything whatever. still, as we drive along in an open carriage, this fairy marriage is real enough to fill me with a sort of wondering pity for the unfortunate people who have no part in it, but are sweeping out the shops, and going to their daily occupations.

my aunt sits with my hand in hers all the way. when we stop a little way short of the church, to put down peggotty, whom we have brought on the box, she gives it a squeeze, and me a kiss.

god bless you, trot my own boy never could be dearer. i think of poor dear baby this morning.

so do i. and of all i owe to you, dear aunt.

tut, child says my aunt and gives her hand in overflowing cordiality to traddles, who then gives his to mr. dick, who then gives his to me, who then gives mine to traddles, and then we come to the church door.

the church is calm enough, i am sure but it might be a steampower loom in full action, for any sedative effect it has on me. i am too far gone for that.

the rest is all a more or less incoherent dream.

a dream of their coming in with dora of the pewopener arranging us, like a drillsergeant, before the altar rails of my wondering, even then, why pewopeners must always be the most disagreeable females procurable, and whether there is any religious dread of a disastrous infection of goodhumour which renders it indispensable to set those vessels of vinegar upon the road to heaven.

of the clergyman and clerk appearing of a few boatmen and some other people strolling in of an ancient mariner behind me, strongly flavouring the church with rum of the service beginning in a deep voice, and our all being very attentive.

of miss lavinia, who acts as a semiauxiliary bridesmaid, being the first to cry, and of her doing homage as i take it to the memory of pidger, in sobs of miss clarissa applying a smellingbottle of agnes taking care of dora of my aunt endeavouring to represent herself as a model of sternness, with tears rolling down her face of little dora trembling very much, and making her responses in faint whispers.

of our kneeling down together, side by side of doras trembling less and less, but always clasping agnes by the hand of the service being got through, quietly and gravely of our all looking at each other in an april state of smiles and tears, when it is over of my young wife being hysterical in the vestry, and crying for her poor papa, her dear papa.

of her soon cheering up again, and our signing the register all round. of my going into the gallery for peggotty to bring her to sign it of peggottys hugging me in a corner, and telling me she saw my own dear mother married of its being over, and our going away.

of my walking so proudly and lovingly down the aisle with my sweet wife upon my arm, through a mist of halfseen people, pulpits, monuments, pews, fonts, organs, and church windows, in which there flutter faint airs of association with my childish church at home, so long ago.

of their whispering, as we pass, what a youthful couple we are, and what a pretty little wife she is. of our all being so merry and talkative in the carriage going back. of sophy telling us that when she saw traddles whom i had entrusted with the licence asked for it, she almost fainted, having been convinced that he would contrive to lose it, or to have his pocket picked. of agnes laughing gaily and of dora being so fond of agnes that she will not be separated from her, but still keeps her hand.

of there being a breakfast, with abundance of things, pretty and substantial, to eat and drink, whereof i partake, as i should do in any other dream, without the least perception of their flavour eating and drinking, as i may say, nothing but love and marriage, and no more believing in the viands than in anything else.

of my making a speech in the same dreamy fashion, without having an idea of what i want to say, beyond such as may be comprehended in the full conviction that i havent said it. of our being very sociably and simply happy always in a dream though and of jips having wedding cake, and its not agreeing with him afterwards.

of the pair of hired posthorses being ready, and of doras going away to change her dress. of my aunt and miss clarissa remaining with us and our walking in the garden and my aunt, who has made quite a speech at breakfast touching doras aunts, being mightily amused with herself, but a little proud of it too.

of doras being ready, and of miss lavinias hovering about her, loth to lose the pretty toy that has given her so much pleasant occupation. of doras making a long series of surprised discoveries that she has forgotten all sorts of little things and of everybodys running everywhere to fetch them.

of their all closing about dora, when at last she begins to say goodbye, looking, with their bright colours and ribbons, like a bed of flowers. of my darling being almost smothered among the flowers, and coming out, laughing and crying both together, to my jealous arms.

of my wanting to carry jip who is to go along with us, and doras saying no, that she must carry him, or else hell think she dont like him any more, now she is married, and will break his heart.

of our going, arm in arm, and dora stopping and looking back, and saying, if i have ever been cross or ungrateful to anybody, dont remember it and bursting into tears.

of her waving her little hand, and our going away once more. of her once more stopping, and looking back, and hurrying to agnes, and giving agnes, above all the others, her last kisses and farewells.

we drive away together, and i awake from the dream. i believe it at last. it is my dear, dear, little wife beside me, whom i love so well are you happy now, you foolish boy says dora, and sure you dont repent


i have stood aside to see the phantoms of those days go by me.

they are gone, and i resume the journey of my story.



chapter 

our housekeeping

it was a strange condition of things, the honeymoon being over, and the bridesmaids gone home, when i found myself sitting down in my own small house with dora quite thrown out of employment, as i may say, in respect of the delicious old occupation of making love.

it seemed such an extraordinary thing to have dora always there.

it was so unaccountable not to be obliged to go out to see her, not to have any occasion to be tormenting myself about her, not to have to write to her, not to be scheming and devising opportunities of being alone with her. sometimes of an evening, when i looked up from my writing, and saw her seated opposite, i would lean back in my chair, and think how queer it was that there we were, alone together as a matter of course  nobodys business any more  all the romance of our engagement put away upon a shelf, to rust  no one to please but one another  one another to please, for life.

when there was a debate, and i was kept out very late, it seemed so strange to me, as i was walking home, to think that dora was at home it was such a wonderful thing, at first, to have her coming softly down to talk to me as i ate my supper. it was such a stupendous thing to know for certain that she put her hair in papers. it was altogether such an astonishing event to see her do it

i doubt whether two young birds could have known less about keeping house, than i and my pretty dora did. we had a servant, of course.

she kept house for us. i have still a latent belief that she must have been mrs. crupps daughter in disguise, we had such an awful time of it with mary anne.

her name was paragon. her nature was represented to us, when we engaged her, as being feebly expressed in her name. she had a written character, as large as a proclamation and, according to this document, could do everything of a domestic nature that ever i heard of, and a great many things that i never did hear of. she was a woman in the prime of life of a severe countenance and subject particularly in the arms to a sort of perpetual measles or fiery rash. she had a cousin in the lifeguards, with such long legs that he looked like the afternoon shadow of somebody else.

his shelljacket was as much too little for him as he was too big for the premises. he made the cottage smaller than it need have been, by being so very much out of proportion to it. besides which, the walls were not thick, and, whenever he passed the evening at our house, we always knew of it by hearing one continual growl in the kitchen.

our treasure was warranted sober and honest. i am therefore willing to believe that she was in a fit when we found her under the boiler and that the deficient teaspoons were attributable to the dustman.

but she preyed upon our minds dreadfully. we felt our inexperience, and were unable to help ourselves. we should have been at her mercy, if she had had any but she was a remorseless woman, and had none. she was the cause of our first little quarrel.

my dearest life, i said one day to dora, do you think mary anne has any idea of time

why, doady inquired dora, looking up, innocently, from her drawing.

my love, because its five, and we were to have dined at four.

dora glanced wistfully at the clock, and hinted that she thought it was too fast.

on the contrary, my love, said i, referring to my watch, its a few minutes too slow.

my little wife came and sat upon my knee, to coax me to be quiet, and drew a line with her pencil down the middle of my nose but i couldnt dine off that, though it was very agreeable.

dont you think, my dear, said i, it would be better for you to remonstrate with mary anne

oh no, please i couldnt, doady said dora.

why not, my love i gently asked.

oh, because i am such a little goose, said dora, and she knows i am

i thought this sentiment so incompatible with the establishment of any system of check on mary anne, that i frowned a little.

oh, what ugly wrinkles in my bad boys forehead said dora, and still being on my knee, she traced them with her pencil putting it to her rosy lips to make it mark blacker, and working at my forehead with a quaint little mockery of being industrious, that quite delighted me in spite of myself.

theres a good child, said dora, it makes its face so much prettier to laugh.

but, my love, said i.

no, no please cried dora, with a kiss, dont be a naughty blue beard dont be serious

my precious wife, said i, we must be serious sometimes. come

sit down on this chair, close beside me give me the pencil

there now let us talk sensibly. you know, dear what a little hand it was to hold, and what a tiny weddingring it was to see you know, my love, it is not exactly comfortable to have to go out without ones dinner. now, is it

nnno replied dora, faintly.

my love, how you tremble

because i know youre going to scold me, exclaimed dora, in a piteous voice.

my sweet, i am only going to reason.

oh, but reasoning is worse than scolding exclaimed dora, in despair. i didnt marry to be reasoned with. if you meant to reason with such a poor little thing as i am, you ought to have told me so, you cruel boy

i tried to pacify dora, but she turned away her face, and shook her curls from side to side, and said, you cruel, cruel boy so many times, that i really did not exactly know what to do so i took a few turns up and down the room in my uncertainty, and came back again.

dora, my darling

no, i am not your darling. because you must be sorry that you married me, or else you wouldnt reason with me returned dora.

i felt so injured by the inconsequential nature of this charge, that it gave me courage to be grave.

now, my own dora, said i, you are very childish, and are talking nonsense. you must remember, i am sure, that i was obliged to go out yesterday when dinner was half over and that, the day before, i was made quite unwell by being obliged to eat underdone veal in a hurry today, i dont dine at all  and i am afraid to say how long we waited for breakfast  and then the water didnt boil. i dont mean to reproach you, my dear, but this is not comfortable.

oh, you cruel, cruel boy, to say i am a disagreeable wife cried dora.

now, my dear dora, you must know that i never said that

you said, i wasnt comfortable cried dora.

i said the housekeeping was not comfortable

its exactly the same thing cried dora. and she evidently thought so, for she wept most grievously.

i took another turn across the room, full of love for my pretty wife, and distracted by selfaccusatory inclinations to knock my head against the door. i sat down again, and said i am not blaming you, dora. we have both a great deal to learn.

i am only trying to show you, my dear, that you must  you really must i was resolved not to give this up  accustom yourself to look after mary anne. likewise to act a little for yourself, and me.

i wonder, i do, at your making such ungrateful speeches, sobbed dora. when you know that the other day, when you said you would like a little bit of fish, i went out myself, miles and miles, and ordered it, to surprise you.

and it was very kind of you, my own darling, said i. i felt it so much that i wouldnt on any account have even mentioned that you bought a salmon  which was too much for two. or that it cost one pound six  which was more than we can afford.

you enjoyed it very much, sobbed dora. and you said i was a mouse.

and ill say so again, my love, i returned, a thousand times

but i had wounded doras soft little heart, and she was not to be comforted. she was so pathetic in her sobbing and bewailing, that i felt as if i had said i dont know what to hurt her. i was obliged to hurry away i was kept out late and i felt all night such pangs of remorse as made me miserable. i had the conscience of an assassin, and was haunted by a vague sense of enormous wickedness.

it was two or three hours past midnight when i got home. i found my aunt, in our house, sitting up for me.

is anything the matter, aunt said i, alarmed.

nothing, trot, she replied. sit down, sit down. little blossom has been rather out of spirits, and i have been keeping her company. thats all.

i leaned my head upon my hand and felt more sorry and downcast, as i sat looking at the fire, than i could have supposed possible so soon after the fulfilment of my brightest hopes. as i sat thinking, i happened to meet my aunts eyes, which were resting on my face. there was an anxious expression in them, but it cleared directly.

i assure you, aunt, said i, i have been quite unhappy myself all night, to think of doras being so. but i had no other intention than to speak to her tenderly and lovingly about our homeaffairs.

my aunt nodded encouragement.

you must have patience, trot, said she.

of course. heaven knows i dont mean to be unreasonable, aunt

no, no, said my aunt. but little blossom is a very tender little blossom, and the wind must be gentle with her.

i thanked my good aunt, in my heart, for her tenderness towards my wife and i was sure that she knew i did.

dont you think, aunt, said i, after some further contemplation of the fire, that you could advise and counsel dora a little, for our mutual advantage, now and then

trot, returned my aunt, with some emotion, no dont ask me such a thing.

her tone was so very earnest that i raised my eyes in surprise.

i look back on my life, child, said my aunt, and i think of some who are in their graves, with whom i might have been on kinder terms. if i judged harshly of other peoples mistakes in marriage, it may have been because i had bitter reason to judge harshly of my own. let that pass. i have been a grumpy, frumpy, wayward sort of a woman, a good many years. i am still, and i always shall be.

but you and i have done one another some good, trot,  at all events, you have done me good, my dear and division must not come between us, at this time of day.

division between us cried i.

child, child said my aunt, smoothing her dress, how soon it might come between us, or how unhappy i might make our little blossom, if i meddled in anything, a prophet couldnt say. i want our pet to like me, and be as gay as a butterfly. remember your own home, in that second marriage and never do both me and her the injury you have hinted at

i comprehended, at once, that my aunt was right and i comprehended the full extent of her generous feeling towards my dear wife.

these are early days, trot, she pursued, and rome was not built in a day, nor in a year. you have chosen freely for yourself a cloud passed over her face for a moment, i thought and you have chosen a very pretty and a very affectionate creature. it will be your duty, and it will be your pleasure too  of course i know that i am not delivering a lecture  to estimate her as you chose her by the qualities she has, and not by the qualities she may not have. the latter you must develop in her, if you can. and if you cannot, child, here my aunt rubbed her nose, you must just accustom yourself to do without em. but remember, my dear, your future is between you two. no one can assist you you are to work it out for yourselves. this is marriage, trot and heaven bless you both, in it, for a pair of babes in the wood as you are

my aunt said this in a sprightly way, and gave me a kiss to ratify the blessing.

now, said she, light my little lantern, and see me into my bandbox by the garden path for there was a communication between our cottages in that direction. give betsey trotwoods love to blossom, when you come back and whatever you do, trot, never dream of setting betsey up as a scarecrow, for if i ever saw her in the glass, shes quite grim enough and gaunt enough in her private capacity

with this my aunt tied her head up in a handkerchief, with which she was accustomed to make a bundle of it on such occasions and i escorted her home. as she stood in her garden, holding up her little lantern to light me back, i thought her observation of me had an anxious air again but i was too much occupied in pondering on what she had said, and too much impressed  for the first time, in reality  by the conviction that dora and i had indeed to work out our future for ourselves, and that no one could assist us, to take much notice of it.

dora came stealing down in her little slippers, to meet me, now that i was alone and cried upon my shoulder, and said i had been hardhearted and she had been naughty and i said much the same thing in effect, i believe and we made it up, and agreed that our first little difference was to be our last, and that we were never to have another if we lived a hundred years.

the next domestic trial we went through, was the ordeal of servants. mary annes cousin deserted into our coalhole, and was brought out, to our great amazement, by a piquet of his companions in arms, who took him away handcuffed in a procession that covered our frontgarden with ignominy. this nerved me to get rid of mary anne, who went so mildly, on receipt of wages, that i was surprised, until i found out about the teaspoons, and also about the little sums she had borrowed in my name of the tradespeople without authority. after an interval of mrs. kidgerbury  the oldest inhabitant of kentish town, i believe, who went out charing, but was too feeble to execute her conceptions of that art  we found another treasure, who was one of the most amiable of women, but who generally made a point of falling either up or down the kitchen stairs with the tray, and almost plunged into the parlour, as into a bath, with the teathings. the ravages committed by this unfortunate, rendering her dismissal necessary, she was succeeded with intervals of mrs. kidgerbury by a long line of incapables terminating in a young person of genteel appearance, who went to greenwich fair in doras bonnet. after whom i remember nothing but an average equality of failure.

everybody we had anything to do with seemed to cheat us. our appearance in a shop was a signal for the damaged goods to be brought out immediately. if we bought a lobster, it was full of water. all our meat turned out to be tough, and there was hardly any crust to our loaves. in search of the principle on which joints ought to be roasted, to be roasted enough, and not too much, i myself referred to the cookery book, and found it there established as the allowance of a quarter of an hour to every pound, and say a quarter over. but the principle always failed us by some curious fatality, and we never could hit any medium between redness and cinders.

i had reason to believe that in accomplishing these failures we incurred a far greater expense than if we had achieved a series of triumphs. it appeared to me, on looking over the tradesmens books, as if we might have kept the basement storey paved with butter, such was the extensive scale of our consumption of that article. i dont know whether the excise returns of the period may have exhibited any increase in the demand for pepper but if our performances did not affect the market, i should say several families must have left off using it. and the most wonderful fact of all was, that we never had anything in the house.

as to the washerwoman pawning the clothes, and coming in a state of penitent intoxication to apologize, i suppose that might have happened several times to anybody. also the chimney on fire, the parish engine, and perjury on the part of the beadle. but i apprehend that we were personally fortunate in engaging a servant with a taste for cordials, who swelled our running account for porter at the publichouse by such inexplicable items as quartern rum shrub mrs. c. halfquartern gin and cloves mrs. c. glass rum and peppermint mrs. c.  the parentheses always referring to dora, who was supposed, it appeared on explanation, to have imbibed the whole of these refreshments.

one of our first feats in the housekeeping way was a little dinner to traddles. i met him in town, and asked him to walk out with me that afternoon. he readily consenting, i wrote to dora, saying i would bring him home. it was pleasant weather, and on the road we made my domestic happiness the theme of conversation. traddles was very full of it and said, that, picturing himself with such a home, and sophy waiting and preparing for him, he could think of nothing wanting to complete his bliss.

i could not have wished for a prettier little wife at the opposite end of the table, but i certainly could have wished, when we sat down, for a little more room. i did not know how it was, but though there were only two of us, we were at once always cramped for room, and yet had always room enough to lose everything in. i suspect it may have been because nothing had a place of its own, except jips pagoda, which invariably blocked up the main thoroughfare. on the present occasion, traddles was so hemmed in by the pagoda and the guitarcase, and doras flowerpainting, and my writingtable, that i had serious doubts of the possibility of his using his knife and fork but he protested, with his own goodhumour, oceans of room, copperfield i assure you, oceans

there was another thing i could have wished, namely, that jip had never been encouraged to walk about the tablecloth during dinner.

i began to think there was something disorderly in his being there at all, even if he had not been in the habit of putting his foot in the salt or the melted butter. on this occasion he seemed to think he was introduced expressly to keep traddles at bay and he barked at my old friend, and made short runs at his plate, with such undaunted pertinacity, that he may be said to have engrossed the conversation.

however, as i knew how tenderhearted my dear dora was, and how sensitive she would be to any slight upon her favourite, i hinted no objection. for similar reasons i made no allusion to the skirmishing plates upon the floor or to the disreputable appearance of the castors, which were all at sixes and sevens, and looked drunk or to the further blockade of traddles by wandering vegetable dishes and jugs. i could not help wondering in my own mind, as i contemplated the boiled leg of mutton before me, previous to carving it, how it came to pass that our joints of meat were of such extraordinary shapes  and whether our butcher contracted for all the deformed sheep that came into the world but i kept my reflections to myself.

my love, said i to dora, what have you got in that dish

i could not imagine why dora had been making tempting little faces at me, as if she wanted to kiss me.

oysters, dear, said dora, timidly.

was that your thought said i, delighted.

yeyes, doady, said dora.

there never was a happier one i exclaimed, laying down the carvingknife and fork. there is nothing traddles likes so much

yeyes, doady, said dora, and so i bought a beautiful little barrel of them, and the man said they were very good. but i  i am afraid theres something the matter with them. they dont seem right. here dora shook her head, and diamonds twinkled in her eyes.

they are only opened in both shells, said i. take the top one off, my love.

but it wont come off said dora, trying very hard, and looking very much distressed.

do you know, copperfield, said traddles, cheerfully examining the dish, i think it is in consequence  they are capital oysters, but i think it is in consequence  of their never having been opened.

they never had been opened and we had no oysterknives  and couldnt have used them if we had so we looked at the oysters and ate the mutton. at least we ate as much of it as was done, and made up with capers. if i had permitted him, i am satisfied that traddles would have made a perfect savage of himself, and eaten a plateful of raw meat, to express enjoyment of the repast but i would hear of no such immolation on the altar of friendship, and we had a course of bacon instead there happening, by good fortune, to be cold bacon in the larder.

my poor little wife was in such affliction when she thought i should be annoyed, and in such a state of joy when she found i was not, that the discomfiture i had subdued, very soon vanished, and we passed a happy evening dora sitting with her arm on my chair while traddles and i discussed a glass of wine, and taking every opportunity of whispering in my ear that it was so good of me not to be a cruel, cross old boy. by and by she made tea for us which it was so pretty to see her do, as if she was busying herself with a set of dolls teathings, that i was not particular about the quality of the beverage. then traddles and i played a game or two at cribbage and dora singing to the guitar the while, it seemed to me as if our courtship and marriage were a tender dream of mine, and the night when i first listened to her voice were not yet over.

when traddles went away, and i came back into the parlour from seeing him out, my wife planted her chair close to mine, and sat down by my side. i am very sorry, she said. will you try to teach me, doady

i must teach myself first, dora, said i. i am as bad as you, love.

ah but you can learn, she returned and you are a clever, clever man

nonsense, mouse said i.

i wish, resumed my wife, after a long silence, that i could have gone down into the country for a whole year, and lived with agnes

her hands were clasped upon my shoulder, and her chin rested on them, and her blue eyes looked quietly into mine.

why so i asked.

i think she might have improved me, and i think i might have learned from her, said dora.

all in good time, my love. agnes has had her father to take care of for these many years, you should remember. even when she was quite a child, she was the agnes whom we know, said i.

will you call me a name i want you to call me inquired dora, without moving.

what is it i asked with a smile.

its a stupid name, she said, shaking her curls for a moment.

childwife.

i laughingly asked my childwife what her fancy was in desiring to be so called. she answered without moving, otherwise than as the arm i twined about her may have brought her blue eyes nearer to me i dont mean, you silly fellow, that you should use the name instead of dora. i only mean that you should think of me that way.

when you are going to be angry with me, say to yourself, its only my childwife when i am very disappointing, say, i knew, a long time ago, that she would make but a childwife when you miss what i should like to be, and i think can never be, say, still my foolish childwife loves me for indeed i do.

i had not been serious with her having no idea until now, that she was serious herself. but her affectionate nature was so happy in what i now said to her with my whole heart, that her face became a laughing one before her glittering eyes were dry. she was soon my childwife indeed sitting down on the floor outside the chinese house, ringing all the little bells one after another, to punish jip for his recent bad behaviour while jip lay blinking in the doorway with his head out, even too lazy to be teased.

this appeal of doras made a strong impression on me. i look back on the time i write of i invoke the innocent figure that i dearly loved, to come out from the mists and shadows of the past, and turn its gentle head towards me once again and i can still declare that this one little speech was constantly in my memory. i may not have used it to the best account i was young and inexperienced but i never turned a deaf ear to its artless pleading.

dora told me, shortly afterwards, that she was going to be a wonderful housekeeper. accordingly, she polished the tablets, pointed the pencil, bought an immense accountbook, carefully stitched up with a needle and thread all the leaves of the cookery book which jip had torn, and made quite a desperate little attempt to be good, as she called it. but the figures had the old obstinate propensity  they would not add up. when she had entered two or three laborious items in the accountbook, jip would walk over the page, wagging his tail, and smear them all out. her own little righthand middle finger got steeped to the very bone in ink and i think that was the only decided result obtained.

sometimes, of an evening, when i was at home and at work  for i wrote a good deal now, and was beginning in a small way to be known as a writer  i would lay down my pen, and watch my childwife trying to be good. first of all, she would bring out the immense accountbook, and lay it down upon the table, with a deep sigh.

then she would open it at the place where jip had made it illegible last night, and call jip up, to look at his misdeeds. this would occasion a diversion in jips favour, and some inking of his nose, perhaps, as a penalty. then she would tell jip to lie down on the table instantly, like a lion  which was one of his tricks, though i cannot say the likeness was striking  and, if he were in an obedient humour, he would obey. then she would take up a pen, and begin to write, and find a hair in it. then she would take up another pen, and begin to write, and find that it spluttered. then she would take up another pen, and begin to write, and say in a low voice, oh, its a talking pen, and will disturb doady and then she would give it up as a bad job, and put the accountbook away, after pretending to crush the lion with it.

or, if she were in a very sedate and serious state of mind, she would sit down with the tablets, and a little basket of bills and other documents, which looked more like curlpapers than anything else, and endeavour to get some result out of them. after severely comparing one with another, and making entries on the tablets, and blotting them out, and counting all the fingers of her left hand over and over again, backwards and forwards, she would be so vexed and discouraged, and would look so unhappy, that it gave me pain to see her bright face clouded  and for me  and i would go softly to her, and say whats the matter, dora

dora would look up hopelessly, and reply, they wont come right.

they make my head ache so. and they wont do anything i want

then i would say, now let us try together. let me show you, dora.

then i would commence a practical demonstration, to which dora would pay profound attention, perhaps for five minutes when she would begin to be dreadfully tired, and would lighten the subject by curling my hair, or trying the effect of my face with my shirtcollar turned down. if i tacitly checked this playfulness, and persisted, she would look so scared and disconsolate, as she became more and more bewildered, that the remembrance of her natural gaiety when i first strayed into her path, and of her being my childwife, would come reproachfully upon me and i would lay the pencil down, and call for the guitar.

i had a great deal of work to do, and had many anxieties, but the same considerations made me keep them to myself. i am far from sure, now, that it was right to do this, but i did it for my childwifes sake. i search my breast, and i commit its secrets, if i know them, without any reservation to this paper. the old unhappy loss or want of something had, i am conscious, some place in my heart but not to the embitterment of my life. when i walked alone in the fine weather, and thought of the summer days when all the air had been filled with my boyish enchantment, i did miss something of the realization of my dreams but i thought it was a softened glory of the past, which nothing could have thrown upon the present time. i did feel, sometimes, for a little while, that i could have wished my wife had been my counsellor had had more character and purpose, to sustain me and improve me by had been endowed with power to fill up the void which somewhere seemed to be about me but i felt as if this were an unearthly consummation of my happiness, that never had been meant to be, and never could have been.

i was a boyish husband as to years. i had known the softening influence of no other sorrows or experiences than those recorded in these leaves. if i did any wrong, as i may have done much, i did it in mistaken love, and in my want of wisdom. i write the exact truth. it would avail me nothing to extenuate it now.

thus it was that i took upon myself the toils and cares of our life, and had no partner in them. we lived much as before, in reference to our scrambling household arrangements but i had got used to those, and dora i was pleased to see was seldom vexed now.

she was bright and cheerful in the old childish way, loved me dearly, and was happy with her old trifles.

when the debates were heavy  i mean as to length, not quality, for in the last respect they were not often otherwise  and i went home late, dora would never rest when she heard my footsteps, but would always come downstairs to meet me. when my evenings were unoccupied by the pursuit for which i had qualified myself with so much pains, and i was engaged in writing at home, she would sit quietly near me, however late the hour, and be so mute, that i would often think she had dropped asleep. but generally, when i raised my head, i saw her blue eyes looking at me with the quiet attention of which i have already spoken.

oh, what a weary boy said dora one night, when i met her eyes as i was shutting up my desk.

what a weary girl said i. thats more to the purpose. you must go to bed another time, my love. its far too late for you.

no, dont send me to bed pleaded dora, coming to my side.

pray, dont do that

dora to my amazement she was sobbing on my neck. not well, my dear not happy

yes quite well, and very happy said dora. but say youll let me stop, and see you write.

why, what a sight for such bright eyes at midnight i replied.

are they bright, though returned dora, laughing. im so glad theyre bright.

little vanity said i.

but it was not vanity it was only harmless delight in my admiration. i knew that very well, before she told me so.

if you think them pretty, say i may always stop, and see you write said dora. do you think them pretty

very pretty.

then let me always stop and see you write.

i am afraid that wont improve their brightness, dora.

yes, it will because, you clever boy, youll not forget me then, while you are full of silent fancies. will you mind it, if i say something very, very silly  more than usual inquired dora, peeping over my shoulder into my face.

what wonderful thing is that said i.

please let me hold the pens, said dora. i want to have something to do with all those many hours when you are so industrious. may i hold the pens

the remembrance of her pretty joy when i said yes, brings tears into my eyes. the next time i sat down to write, and regularly afterwards, she sat in her old place, with a spare bundle of pens at her side. her triumph in this connexion with my work, and her delight when i wanted a new pen  which i very often feigned to do  suggested to me a new way of pleasing my childwife. i occasionally made a pretence of wanting a page or two of manuscript copied. then dora was in her glory. the preparations she made for this great work, the aprons she put on, the bibs she borrowed from the kitchen to keep off the ink, the time she took, the innumerable stoppages she made to have a laugh with jip as if he understood it all, her conviction that her work was incomplete unless she signed her name at the end, and the way in which she would bring it to me, like a schoolcopy, and then, when i praised it, clasp me round the neck, are touching recollections to me, simple as they might appear to other men.

she took possession of the keys soon after this, and went jingling about the house with the whole bunch in a little basket, tied to her slender waist. i seldom found that the places to which they belonged were locked, or that they were of any use except as a plaything for jip  but dora was pleased, and that pleased me. she was quite satisfied that a good deal was effected by this makebelief of housekeeping and was as merry as if we had been keeping a babyhouse, for a joke.

so we went on. dora was hardly less affectionate to my aunt than to me, and often told her of the time when she was afraid she was a cross old thing. i never saw my aunt unbend more systematically to anyone. she courted jip, though jip never responded listened, day after day, to the guitar, though i am afraid she had no taste for music never attacked the incapables, though the temptation must have been severe went wonderful distances on foot to purchase, as surprises, any trifles that she found out dora wanted and never came in by the garden, and missed her from the room, but she would call out, at the foot of the stairs, in a voice that sounded cheerfully all over the house wheres little blossom



chapter 

mr. dick fulfils my aunts predictions

it was some time now, since i had left the doctor. living in his neighbourhood, i saw him frequently and we all went to his house on two or three occasions to dinner or tea. the old soldier was in permanent quarters under the doctors roof. she was exactly the same as ever, and the same immortal butterflies hovered over her cap.

like some other mothers, whom i have known in the course of my life, mrs. markleham was far more fond of pleasure than her daughter was. she required a great deal of amusement, and, like a deep old soldier, pretended, in consulting her own inclinations, to be devoting herself to her child. the doctors desire that annie should be entertained, was therefore particularly acceptable to this excellent parent who expressed unqualified approval of his discretion.

i have no doubt, indeed, that she probed the doctors wound without knowing it. meaning nothing but a certain matured frivolity and selfishness, not always inseparable from fullblown years, i think she confirmed him in his fear that he was a constraint upon his young wife, and that there was no congeniality of feeling between them, by so strongly commending his design of lightening the load of her life.

my dear soul, she said to him one day when i was present, you know there is no doubt it would be a little pokey for annie to be always shut up here.

the doctor nodded his benevolent head. when she comes to her mothers age, said mrs. markleham, with a flourish of her fan, then itll be another thing. you might put me into a jail, with genteel society and a rubber, and i should never care to come out.

but i am not annie, you know and annie is not her mother.

surely, surely, said the doctor.

you are the best of creatures  no, i beg your pardon for the doctor made a gesture of deprecation, i must say before your face, as i always say behind your back, you are the best of creatures but of course you dont  now do you  enter into the same pursuits and fancies as annie

no, said the doctor, in a sorrowful tone.

no, of course not, retorted the old soldier. take your dictionary, for example. what a useful work a dictionary is what a necessary work the meanings of words without doctor johnson, or somebody of that sort, we might have been at this present moment calling an italianiron, a bedstead. but we cant expect a dictionary  especially when its making  to interest annie, can we

the doctor shook his head.

and thats why i so much approve, said mrs. markleham, tapping him on the shoulder with her shutup fan, of your thoughtfulness.

it shows that you dont expect, as many elderly people do expect, old heads on young shoulders. you have studied annies character, and you understand it. thats what i find so charming

even the calm and patient face of doctor strong expressed some little sense of pain, i thought, under the infliction of these compliments.

therefore, my dear doctor, said the old soldier, giving him several affectionate taps, you may command me, at all times and seasons. now, do understand that i am entirely at your service.

i am ready to go with annie to operas, concerts, exhibitions, all kinds of places and you shall never find that i am tired. duty, my dear doctor, before every consideration in the universe

she was as good as her word. she was one of those people who can bear a great deal of pleasure, and she never flinched in her perseverance in the cause. she seldom got hold of the newspaper which she settled herself down in the softest chair in the house to read through an eyeglass, every day, for two hours, but she found out something that she was certain annie would like to see.

it was in vain for annie to protest that she was weary of such things. her mothers remonstrance always was, now, my dear annie, i am sure you know better and i must tell you, my love, that you are not making a proper return for the kindness of doctor strong.

this was usually said in the doctors presence, and appeared to me to constitute annies principal inducement for withdrawing her objections when she made any. but in general she resigned herself to her mother, and went where the old soldier would.

it rarely happened now that mr. maldon accompanied them. sometimes my aunt and dora were invited to do so, and accepted the invitation. sometimes dora only was asked. the time had been, when i should have been uneasy in her going but reflection on what had passed that former night in the doctors study, had made a change in my mistrust. i believed that the doctor was right, and i had no worse suspicions.

my aunt rubbed her nose sometimes when she happened to be alone with me, and said she couldnt make it out she wished they were happier she didnt think our military friend so she always called the old soldier mended the matter at all. my aunt further expressed her opinion, that if our military friend would cut off those butterflies, and give em to the chimneysweepers for mayday, it would look like the beginning of something sensible on her part.

but her abiding reliance was on mr. dick. that man had evidently an idea in his head, she said and if he could only once pen it up into a corner, which was his great difficulty, he would distinguish himself in some extraordinary manner.

unconscious of this prediction, mr. dick continued to occupy precisely the same ground in reference to the doctor and to mrs.

strong. he seemed neither to advance nor to recede. he appeared to have settled into his original foundation, like a building and i must confess that my faith in his ever moving, was not much greater than if he had been a building.

but one night, when i had been married some months, mr. dick put his head into the parlour, where i was writing alone dora having gone out with my aunt to take tea with the two little birds, and said, with a significant cough you couldnt speak to me without inconveniencing yourself, trotwood, i am afraid

certainly, mr. dick, said i come in

trotwood, said mr. dick, laying his finger on the side of his nose, after he had shaken hands with me. before i sit down, i wish to make an observation. you know your aunt

a little, i replied.

she is the most wonderful woman in the world, sir

after the delivery of this communication, which he shot out of himself as if he were loaded with it, mr. dick sat down with greater gravity than usual, and looked at me.

now, boy, said mr. dick, i am going to put a question to you.

as many as you please, said i.

what do you consider me, sir asked mr. dick, folding his arms.

a dear old friend, said i.

thank you, trotwood, returned mr. dick, laughing, and reaching across in high glee to shake hands with me. but i mean, boy, resuming his gravity, what do you consider me in this respect touching his forehead.

i was puzzled how to answer, but he helped me with a word.

weak said mr. dick.

well, i replied, dubiously. rather so.

exactly cried mr. dick, who seemed quite enchanted by my reply.

that is, trotwood, when they took some of the trouble out of youknowwhos head, and put it you know where, there was a  mr.

dick made his two hands revolve very fast about each other a great number of times, and then brought them into collision, and rolled them over and over one another, to express confusion. there was that sort of thing done to me somehow. eh

i nodded at him, and he nodded back again.

in short, boy, said mr. dick, dropping his voice to a whisper, i am simple.

i would have qualified that conclusion, but he stopped me.

yes, i am she pretends i am not. she wont hear of it but i am. i know i am. if she hadnt stood my friend, sir, i should have been shut up, to lead a dismal life these many years. but ill provide for her i never spend the copying money. i put it in a box. i have made a will. ill leave it all to her. she shall be rich  noble

mr. dick took out his pockethandkerchief, and wiped his eyes. he then folded it up with great care, pressed it smooth between his two hands, put it in his pocket, and seemed to put my aunt away with it.

now you are a scholar, trotwood, said mr. dick. you are a fine scholar. you know what a learned man, what a great man, the doctor is. you know what honour he has always done me. not proud in his wisdom. humble, humble  condescending even to poor dick, who is simple and knows nothing. i have sent his name up, on a scrap of paper, to the kite, along the string, when it has been in the sky, among the larks. the kite has been glad to receive it, sir, and the sky has been brighter with it.

i delighted him by saying, most heartily, that the doctor was deserving of our best respect and highest esteem.

and his beautiful wife is a star, said mr. dick. a shining star. i have seen her shine, sir. but, bringing his chair nearer, and laying one hand upon my knee  clouds, sir  clouds.

i answered the solicitude which his face expressed, by conveying the same expression into my own, and shaking my head.

what clouds said mr. dick.

he looked so wistfully into my face, and was so anxious to understand, that i took great pains to answer him slowly and distinctly, as i might have entered on an explanation to a child.

there is some unfortunate division between them, i replied.

some unhappy cause of separation. a secret. it may be inseparable from the discrepancy in their years. it may have grown up out of almost nothing.

mr. dick, who had told off every sentence with a thoughtful nod, paused when i had done, and sat considering, with his eyes upon my face, and his hand upon my knee.

doctor not angry with her, trotwood he said, after some time.

no. devoted to her.

then, i have got it, boy said mr. dick.

the sudden exultation with which he slapped me on the knee, and leaned back in his chair, with his eyebrows lifted up as high as he could possibly lift them, made me think him farther out of his wits than ever. he became as suddenly grave again, and leaning forward as before, said  first respectfully taking out his pockethandkerchief, as if it really did represent my aunt most wonderful woman in the world, trotwood. why has she done nothing to set things right

too delicate and difficult a subject for such interference, i replied.

fine scholar, said mr. dick, touching me with his finger. why has he done nothing

for the same reason, i returned.

then, i have got it, boy said mr. dick. and he stood up before me, more exultingly than before, nodding his head, and striking himself repeatedly upon the breast, until one might have supposed that he had nearly nodded and struck all the breath out of his body.

a poor fellow with a craze, sir, said mr. dick, a simpleton, a weakminded person  present company, you know striking himself again, may do what wonderful people may not do. ill bring them together, boy. ill try. theyll not blame me. theyll not object to me. theyll not mind what i do, if its wrong. im only mr. dick. and who minds dick dicks nobody whoo he blew a slight, contemptuous breath, as if he blew himself away.

it was fortunate he had proceeded so far with his mystery, for we heard the coach stop at the little garden gate, which brought my aunt and dora home.

not a word, boy he pursued in a whisper leave all the blame with dick  simple dick  mad dick. i have been thinking, sir, for some time, that i was getting it, and now i have got it. after what you have said to me, i am sure i have got it. all right not another word did mr. dick utter on the subject but he made a very telegraph of himself for the next halfhour to the great disturbance of my aunts mind, to enjoin inviolable secrecy on me.

to my surprise, i heard no more about it for some two or three weeks, though i was sufficiently interested in the result of his endeavours descrying a strange gleam of good sense  i say nothing of good feeling, for that he always exhibited  in the conclusion to which he had come. at last i began to believe, that, in the flighty and unsettled state of his mind, he had either forgotten his intention or abandoned it.

one fair evening, when dora was not inclined to go out, my aunt and i strolled up to the doctors cottage. it was autumn, when there were no debates to vex the evening air and i remember how the leaves smelt like our garden at blunderstone as we trod them under foot, and how the old, unhappy feeling, seemed to go by, on the sighing wind.

it was twilight when we reached the cottage. mrs. strong was just coming out of the garden, where mr. dick yet lingered, busy with his knife, helping the gardener to point some stakes. the doctor was engaged with someone in his study but the visitor would be gone directly, mrs. strong said, and begged us to remain and see him. we went into the drawingroom with her, and sat down by the darkening window. there was never any ceremony about the visits of such old friends and neighbours as we were.

we had not sat here many minutes, when mrs. markleham, who usually contrived to be in a fuss about something, came bustling in, with her newspaper in her hand, and said, out of breath, my goodness gracious, annie, why didnt you tell me there was someone in the study

my dear mama, she quietly returned, how could i know that you desired the information

desired the information said mrs. markleham, sinking on the sofa. i never had such a turn in all my life

have you been to the study, then, mama asked annie.

been to the study, my dear she returned emphatically. indeed i have i came upon the amiable creature  if youll imagine my feelings, miss trotwood and david  in the act of making his will.

her daughter looked round from the window quickly.

in the act, my dear annie, repeated mrs. markleham, spreading the newspaper on her lap like a tablecloth, and patting her hands upon it, of making his last will and testament. the foresight and affection of the dear i must tell you how it was. i really must, in justice to the darling  for he is nothing less  tell you how it was. perhaps you know, miss trotwood, that there is never a candle lighted in this house, until ones eyes are literally falling out of ones head with being stretched to read the paper.

and that there is not a chair in this house, in which a paper can be what i call, read, except one in the study. this took me to the study, where i saw a light. i opened the door. in company with the dear doctor were two professional people, evidently connected with the law, and they were all three standing at the table the darling doctor pen in hand. this simply expresses then, said the doctor  annie, my love, attend to the very words  this simply expresses then, gentlemen, the confidence i have in mrs. strong, and gives her all unconditionally one of the professional people replied, and gives her all unconditionally. upon that, with the natural feelings of a mother, i said, good god, i beg your pardon fell over the doorstep, and came away through the little back passage where the pantry is.

mrs. strong opened the window, and went out into the verandah, where she stood leaning against a pillar.

but now isnt it, miss trotwood, isnt it, david, invigorating, said mrs. markleham, mechanically following her with her eyes, to find a man at doctor strongs time of life, with the strength of mind to do this kind of thing it only shows how right i was. i said to annie, when doctor strong paid a very flattering visit to myself, and made her the subject of a declaration and an offer, i said, my dear, there is no doubt whatever, in my opinion, with reference to a suitable provision for you, that doctor strong will do more than he binds himself to do.

here the bell rang, and we heard the sound of the visitors feet as they went out.

its all over, no doubt, said the old soldier, after listening the dear creature has signed, sealed, and delivered, and his minds at rest. well it may be what a mind annie, my love, i am going to the study with my paper, for i am a poor creature without news. miss trotwood, david, pray come and see the doctor.

i was conscious of mr. dicks standing in the shadow of the room, shutting up his knife, when we accompanied her to the study and of my aunts rubbing her nose violently, by the way, as a mild vent for her intolerance of our military friend but who got first into the study, or how mrs. markleham settled herself in a moment in her easychair, or how my aunt and i came to be left together near the door unless her eyes were quicker than mine, and she held me back, i have forgotten, if i ever knew. but this i know,  that we saw the doctor before he saw us, sitting at his table, among the folio volumes in which he delighted, resting his head calmly on his hand. that, in the same moment, we saw mrs. strong glide in, pale and trembling. that mr. dick supported her on his arm. that he laid his other hand upon the doctors arm, causing him to look up with an abstracted air. that, as the doctor moved his head, his wife dropped down on one knee at his feet, and, with her hands imploringly lifted, fixed upon his face the memorable look i had never forgotten. that at this sight mrs. markleham dropped the newspaper, and stared more like a figurehead intended for a ship to be called the astonishment, than anything else i can think of.

the gentleness of the doctors manner and surprise, the dignity that mingled with the supplicating attitude of his wife, the amiable concern of mr. dick, and the earnestness with which my aunt said to herself, that man mad triumphantly expressive of the misery from which she had saved him  i see and hear, rather than remember, as i write about it.

doctor said mr. dick. what is it thats amiss look here

annie cried the doctor. not at my feet, my dear

yes she said. i beg and pray that no one will leave the room

oh, my husband and father, break this long silence. let us both know what it is that has come between us

mrs. markleham, by this time recovering the power of speech, and seeming to swell with family pride and motherly indignation, here exclaimed, annie, get up immediately, and dont disgrace everybody belonging to you by humbling yourself like that, unless you wish to see me go out of my mind on the spot

mama returned annie. waste no words on me, for my appeal is to my husband, and even you are nothing here.

nothing exclaimed mrs. markleham. me, nothing the child has taken leave of her senses. please to get me a glass of water

i was too attentive to the doctor and his wife, to give any heed to this request and it made no impression on anybody else so mrs.

markleham panted, stared, and fanned herself.

annie said the doctor, tenderly taking her in his hands. my dear if any unavoidable change has come, in the sequence of time, upon our married life, you are not to blame. the fault is mine, and only mine. there is no change in my affection, admiration, and respect. i wish to make you happy. i truly love and honour you.

rise, annie, pray

but she did not rise. after looking at him for a little while, she sank down closer to him, laid her arm across his knee, and dropping her head upon it, said if i have any friend here, who can speak one word for me, or for my husband in this matter if i have any friend here, who can give a voice to any suspicion that my heart has sometimes whispered to me if i have any friend here, who honours my husband, or has ever cared for me, and has anything within his knowledge, no matter what it is, that may help to mediate between us, i implore that friend to speak

there was a profound silence. after a few moments of painful hesitation, i broke the silence.

mrs. strong, i said, there is something within my knowledge, which i have been earnestly entreated by doctor strong to conceal, and have concealed until tonight. but, i believe the time has come when it would be mistaken faith and delicacy to conceal it any longer, and when your appeal absolves me from his injunction.

she turned her face towards me for a moment, and i knew that i was right. i could not have resisted its entreaty, if the assurance that it gave me had been less convincing.

our future peace, she said, may be in your hands. i trust it confidently to your not suppressing anything. i know beforehand that nothing you, or anyone, can tell me, will show my husbands noble heart in any other light than one. howsoever it may seem to you to touch me, disregard that. i will speak for myself, before him, and before god afterwards.

thus earnestly besought, i made no reference to the doctor for his permission, but, without any other compromise of the truth than a little softening of the coarseness of uriah heep, related plainly what had passed in that same room that night. the staring of mrs.

markleham during the whole narration, and the shrill, sharp interjections with which she occasionally interrupted it, defy description.

when i had finished, annie remained, for some few moments, silent, with her head bent down, as i have described. then, she took the doctors hand he was sitting in the same attitude as when we had entered the room, and pressed it to her breast, and kissed it.

mr. dick softly raised her and she stood, when she began to speak, leaning on him, and looking down upon her husband  from whom she never turned her eyes.

all that has ever been in my mind, since i was married, she said in a low, submissive, tender voice, i will lay bare before you.

i could not live and have one reservation, knowing what i know now.

nay, annie, said the doctor, mildly, i have never doubted you, my child. there is no need indeed there is no need, my dear.

there is great need, she answered, in the same way, that i should open my whole heart before the soul of generosity and truth, whom, year by year, and day by day, i have loved and venerated more and more, as heaven knows

really, interrupted mrs. markleham, if i have any discretion at all  which you havent, you marplot, observed my aunt, in an indignant whisper.  i must be permitted to observe that it cannot be requisite to enter into these details.

no one but my husband can judge of that, mama, said annie without removing her eyes from his face, and he will hear me. if i say anything to give you pain, mama, forgive me. i have borne pain first, often and long, myself.

upon my word gasped mrs. markleham.

when i was very young, said annie, quite a little child, my first associations with knowledge of any kind were inseparable from a patient friend and teacher  the friend of my dead father  who was always dear to me. i can remember nothing that i know, without remembering him. he stored my mind with its first treasures, and stamped his character upon them all. they never could have been, i think, as good as they have been to me, if i had taken them from any other hands.

makes her mother nothing exclaimed mrs. markleham.

not so mama, said annie but i make him what he was. i must do that. as i grew up, he occupied the same place still. i was proud of his interest deeply, fondly, gratefully attached to him. i looked up to him, i can hardly describe how  as a father, as a guide, as one whose praise was different from all other praise, as one in whom i could have trusted and confided, if i had doubted all the world. you know, mama, how young and inexperienced i was, when you presented him before me, of a sudden, as a lover.

i have mentioned the fact, fifty times at least, to everybody here said mrs. markleham. then hold your tongue, for the lords sake, and dont mention it any more muttered my aunt. it was so great a change so great a loss, i felt it, at first, said annie, still preserving the same look and tone, that i was agitated and distressed. i was but a girl and when so great a change came in the character in which i had so long looked up to him, i think i was sorry. but nothing could have made him what he used to be again and i was proud that he should think me so worthy, and we were married.

 at saint alphage, canterbury, observed mrs. markleham. confound the woman said my aunt, she wont be quiet i never thought, proceeded annie, with a heightened colour, of any worldly gain that my husband would bring to me. my young heart had no room in its homage for any such poor reference. mama, forgive me when i say that it was you who first presented to my mind the thought that anyone could wrong me, and wrong him, by such a cruel suspicion.

me cried mrs. markleham. ah you, to be sure observed my aunt, and you cant fan it away, my military friend it was the first unhappiness of my new life, said annie. it was the first occasion of every unhappy moment i have known. these moments have been more, of late, than i can count but not  my generous husband  not for the reason you suppose for in my heart there is not a thought, a recollection, or a hope, that any power could separate from you

she raised her eyes, and clasped her hands, and looked as beautiful and true, i thought, as any spirit. the doctor looked on her, henceforth, as steadfastly as she on him.

mama is blameless, she went on, of having ever urged you for herself, and she is blameless in intention every way, i am sure,  but when i saw how many importunate claims were pressed upon you in my name how you were traded on in my name how generous you were, and how mr. wickfield, who had your welfare very much at heart, resented it the first sense of my exposure to the mean suspicion that my tenderness was bought  and sold to you, of all men on earth  fell upon me like unmerited disgrace, in which i forced you to participate. i cannot tell you what it was  mama cannot imagine what it was  to have this dread and trouble always on my mind, yet know in my own soul that on my marriageday i crowned the love and honour of my life

a specimen of the thanks one gets, cried mrs. markleham, in tears, for taking care of ones family i wish i was a turk i wish you were, with all my heart  and in your native country said my aunt. it was at that time that mama was most solicitous about my cousin maldon. i had liked him she spoke softly, but without any hesitation very much. we had been little lovers once. if circumstances had not happened otherwise, i might have come to persuade myself that i really loved him, and might have married him, and been most wretched. there can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose.

i pondered on those words, even while i was studiously attending to what followed, as if they had some particular interest, or some strange application that i could not divine. there can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose.

there is nothing, said annie, that we have in common. i have long found that there is nothing. if i were thankful to my husband for no more, instead of for so much, i should be thankful to him for having saved me from the first mistaken impulse of my undisciplined heart.

she stood quite still, before the doctor, and spoke with an earnestness that thrilled me. yet her voice was just as quiet as before.

when he was waiting to be the object of your munificence, so freely bestowed for my sake, and when i was unhappy in the mercenary shape i was made to wear, i thought it would have become him better to have worked his own way on. i thought that if i had been he, i would have tried to do it, at the cost of almost any hardship. but i thought no worse of him, until the night of his departure for india. that night i knew he had a false and thankless heart. i saw a double meaning, then, in mr. wickfields scrutiny of me. i perceived, for the first time, the dark suspicion that shadowed my life.

suspicion, annie said the doctor. no, no, no

in your mind there was none, i know, my husband she returned.

and when i came to you, that night, to lay down all my load of shame and grief, and knew that i had to tell that, underneath your roof, one of my own kindred, to whom you had been a benefactor, for the love of me, had spoken to me words that should have found no utterance, even if i had been the weak and mercenary wretch he thought me  my mind revolted from the taint the very tale conveyed. it died upon my lips, and from that hour till now has never passed them.

mrs. markleham, with a short groan, leaned back in her easychair and retired behind her fan, as if she were never coming out any more.

i have never, but in your presence, interchanged a word with him from that time then, only when it has been necessary for the avoidance of this explanation. years have passed since he knew, from me, what his situation here was. the kindnesses you have secretly done for his advancement, and then disclosed to me, for my surprise and pleasure, have been, you will believe, but aggravations of the unhappiness and burden of my secret.

she sunk down gently at the doctors feet, though he did his utmost to prevent her and said, looking up, tearfully, into his face do not speak to me yet let me say a little more right or wrong, if this were to be done again, i think i should do just the same. you never can know what it was to be devoted to you, with those old associations to find that anyone could be so hard as to suppose that the truth of my heart was bartered away, and to be surrounded by appearances confirming that belief. i was very young, and had no adviser. between mama and me, in all relating to you, there was a wide division. if i shrunk into myself, hiding the disrespect i had undergone, it was because i honoured you so much, and so much wished that you should honour me

annie, my pure heart said the doctor, my dear girl

a little more a very few words more i used to think there were so many whom you might have married, who would not have brought such charge and trouble on you, and who would have made your home a worthier home. i used to be afraid that i had better have remained your pupil, and almost your child. i used to fear that i was so unsuited to your learning and wisdom. if all this made me shrink within myself as indeed it did, when i had that to tell, it was still because i honoured you so much, and hoped that you might one day honour me.

that day has shone this long time, annie, said the doctor, and can have but one long night, my dear.

another word i afterwards meant  steadfastly meant, and purposed to myself  to bear the whole weight of knowing the unworthiness of one to whom you had been so good. and now a last word, dearest and best of friends the cause of the late change in you, which i have seen with so much pain and sorrow, and have sometimes referred to my old apprehension  at other times to lingering suppositions nearer to the truth  has been made clear tonight and by an accident i have also come to know, tonight, the full measure of your noble trust in me, even under that mistake.

i do not hope that any love and duty i may render in return, will ever make me worthy of your priceless confidence but with all this knowledge fresh upon me, i can lift my eyes to this dear face, revered as a fathers, loved as a husbands, sacred to me in my childhood as a friends, and solemnly declare that in my lightest thought i have never wronged you never wavered in the love and the fidelity i owe you

she had her arms around the doctors neck, and he leant his head down over her, mingling his grey hair with her dark brown tresses.

oh, hold me to your heart, my husband never cast me out do not think or speak of disparity between us, for there is none, except in all my many imperfections. every succeeding year i have known this better, as i have esteemed you more and more. oh, take me to your heart, my husband, for my love was founded on a rock, and it endures

in the silence that ensued, my aunt walked gravely up to mr. dick, without at all hurrying herself, and gave him a hug and a sounding kiss. and it was very fortunate, with a view to his credit, that she did so for i am confident that i detected him at that moment in the act of making preparations to stand on one leg, as an appropriate expression of delight.

you are a very remarkable man, dick said my aunt, with an air of unqualified approbation and never pretend to be anything else, for i know better

with that, my aunt pulled him by the sleeve, and nodded to me and we three stole quietly out of the room, and came away.

thats a settler for our military friend, at any rate, said my aunt, on the way home. i should sleep the better for that, if there was nothing else to be glad of

she was quite overcome, i am afraid, said mr. dick, with great commiseration.

what did you ever see a crocodile overcome inquired my aunt.

i dont think i ever saw a crocodile, returned mr. dick, mildly.

there never would have been anything the matter, if it hadnt been for that old animal, said my aunt, with strong emphasis. its very much to be wished that some mothers would leave their daughters alone after marriage, and not be so violently affectionate. they seem to think the only return that can be made them for bringing an unfortunate young woman into the world  god bless my soul, as if she asked to be brought, or wanted to come  is full liberty to worry her out of it again. what are you thinking of, trot

i was thinking of all that had been said. my mind was still running on some of the expressions used. there can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose.

the first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart. my love was founded on a rock. but we were at home and the trodden leaves were lying underfoot, and the autumn wind was blowing.



chapter 

intelligence

i must have been married, if i may trust to my imperfect memory for dates, about a year or so, when one evening, as i was returning from a solitary walk, thinking of the book i was then writing  for my success had steadily increased with my steady application, and i was engaged at that time upon my first work of fiction  i came past mrs. steerforths house. i had often passed it before, during my residence in that neighbourhood, though never when i could choose another road. howbeit, it did sometimes happen that it was not easy to find another, without making a long circuit and so i had passed that way, upon the whole, pretty often.

i had never done more than glance at the house, as i went by with a quickened step. it had been uniformly gloomy and dull. none of the best rooms abutted on the road and the narrow, heavilyframed oldfashioned windows, never cheerful under any circumstances, looked very dismal, close shut, and with their blinds always drawn down. there was a covered way across a little paved court, to an entrance that was never used and there was one round staircase window, at odds with all the rest, and the only one unshaded by a blind, which had the same unoccupied blank look. i do not remember that i ever saw a light in all the house. if i had been a casual passerby, i should have probably supposed that some childless person lay dead in it. if i had happily possessed no knowledge of the place, and had seen it often in that changeless state, i should have pleased my fancy with many ingenious speculations, i dare say.

as it was, i thought as little of it as i might. but my mind could not go by it and leave it, as my body did and it usually awakened a long train of meditations. coming before me, on this particular evening that i mention, mingled with the childish recollections and later fancies, the ghosts of halfformed hopes, the broken shadows of disappointments dimly seen and understood, the blending of experience and imagination, incidental to the occupation with which my thoughts had been busy, it was more than commonly suggestive.

i fell into a brown study as i walked on, and a voice at my side made me start.

it was a womans voice, too. i was not long in recollecting mrs.

steerforths little parlourmaid, who had formerly worn blue ribbons in her cap. she had taken them out now, to adapt herself, i suppose, to the altered character of the house and wore but one or two disconsolate bows of sober brown.

if you please, sir, would you have the goodness to walk in, and speak to miss dartle

has miss dartle sent you for me i inquired.

not tonight, sir, but its just the same. miss dartle saw you pass a night or two ago and i was to sit at work on the staircase, and when i saw you pass again, to ask you to step in and speak to her.

i turned back, and inquired of my conductor, as we went along, how mrs. steerforth was. she said her lady was but poorly, and kept her own room a good deal.

when we arrived at the house, i was directed to miss dartle in the garden, and left to make my presence known to her myself. she was sitting on a seat at one end of a kind of terrace, overlooking the great city. it was a sombre evening, with a lurid light in the sky and as i saw the prospect scowling in the distance, with here and there some larger object starting up into the sullen glare, i fancied it was no inapt companion to the memory of this fierce woman.

she saw me as i advanced, and rose for a moment to receive me. i thought her, then, still more colourless and thin than when i had seen her last the flashing eyes still brighter, and the scar still plainer.

our meeting was not cordial. we had parted angrily on the last occasion and there was an air of disdain about her, which she took no pains to conceal.

i am told you wish to speak to me, miss dartle, said i, standing near her, with my hand upon the back of the seat, and declining her gesture of invitation to sit down.

if you please, said she. pray has this girl been found

no.

and yet she has run away

i saw her thin lips working while she looked at me, as if they were eager to load her with reproaches.

run away i repeated.

yes from him, she said, with a laugh. if she is not found, perhaps she never will be found. she may be dead

the vaunting cruelty with which she met my glance, i never saw expressed in any other face that ever i have seen.

to wish her dead, said i, may be the kindest wish that one of her own sex could bestow upon her. i am glad that time has softened you so much, miss dartle.

she condescended to make no reply, but, turning on me with another scornful laugh, said the friends of this excellent and muchinjured young lady are friends of yours. you are their champion, and assert their rights.

do you wish to know what is known of her

yes, said i.

she rose with an illfavoured smile, and taking a few steps towards a wall of holly that was near at hand, dividing the lawn from a kitchengarden, said, in a louder voice, come here  as if she were calling to some unclean beast.

you will restrain any demonstrative championship or vengeance in this place, of course, mr. copperfield said she, looking over her shoulder at me with the same expression.

i inclined my head, without knowing what she meant and she said, come here again and returned, followed by the respectable mr.

littimer, who, with undiminished respectability, made me a bow, and took up his position behind her. the air of wicked grace of triumph, in which, strange to say, there was yet something feminine and alluring with which she reclined upon the seat between us, and looked at me, was worthy of a cruel princess in a legend.

now, said she, imperiously, without glancing at him, and touching the old wound as it throbbed perhaps, in this instance, with pleasure rather than pain. tell mr. copperfield about the flight.

mr. james and myself, maam 

dont address yourself to me she interrupted with a frown.

mr. james and myself, sir 

nor to me, if you please, said i.

mr. littimer, without being at all discomposed, signified by a slight obeisance, that anything that was most agreeable to us was most agreeable to him and began again.

mr. james and myself have been abroad with the young woman, ever since she left yarmouth under mr. jamess protection. we have been in a variety of places, and seen a deal of foreign country. we have been in france, switzerland, italy, in fact, almost all parts.

he looked at the back of the seat, as if he were addressing himself to that and softly played upon it with his hands, as if he were striking chords upon a dumb piano.

mr. james took quite uncommonly to the young woman and was more settled, for a length of time, than i have known him to be since i have been in his service. the young woman was very improvable, and spoke the languages and wouldnt have been known for the same countryperson. i noticed that she was much admired wherever we went.

miss dartle put her hand upon her side. i saw him steal a glance at her, and slightly smile to himself.

very much admired, indeed, the young woman was. what with her dress what with the air and sun what with being made so much of what with this, that, and the other her merits really attracted general notice.

he made a short pause. her eyes wandered restlessly over the distant prospect, and she bit her nether lip to stop that busy mouth.

taking his hands from the seat, and placing one of them within the other, as he settled himself on one leg, mr. littimer proceeded, with his eyes cast down, and his respectable head a little advanced, and a little on one side the young woman went on in this manner for some time, being occasionally low in her spirits, until i think she began to weary mr. james by giving way to her low spirits and tempers of that kind and things were not so comfortable. mr. james he began to be restless again. the more restless he got, the worse she got and i must say, for myself, that i had a very difficult time of it indeed between the two. still matters were patched up here, and made good there, over and over again and altogether lasted, i am sure, for a longer time than anybody could have expected.

recalling her eyes from the distance, she looked at me again now, with her former air. mr. littimer, clearing his throat behind his hand with a respectable short cough, changed legs, and went on at last, when there had been, upon the whole, a good many words and reproaches, mr. james he set off one morning, from the neighbourhood of naples, where we had a villa the young woman being very partial to the sea, and, under pretence of coming back in a day or so, left it in charge with me to break it out, that, for the general happiness of all concerned, he was  here an interruption of the short cough  gone. but mr. james, i must say, certainly did behave extremely honourable for he proposed that the young woman should marry a very respectable person, who was fully prepared to overlook the past, and who was, at least, as good as anybody the young woman could have aspired to in a regular way her connexions being very common.

he changed legs again, and wetted his lips. i was convinced that the scoundrel spoke of himself, and i saw my conviction reflected in miss dartles face.

this i also had it in charge to communicate. i was willing to do anything to relieve mr. james from his difficulty, and to restore harmony between himself and an affectionate parent, who has undergone so much on his account. therefore i undertook the commission. the young womans violence when she came to, after i broke the fact of his departure, was beyond all expectations. she was quite mad, and had to be held by force or, if she couldnt have got to a knife, or got to the sea, shed have beaten her head against the marble floor.

miss dartle, leaning back upon the seat, with a light of exultation in her face, seemed almost to caress the sounds this fellow had uttered.

but when i came to the second part of what had been entrusted to me, said mr. littimer, rubbing his hands uneasily, which anybody might have supposed would have been, at all events, appreciated as a kind intention, then the young woman came out in her true colours. a more outrageous person i never did see. her conduct was surprisingly bad. she had no more gratitude, no more feeling, no more patience, no more reason in her, than a stock or a stone.

if i hadnt been upon my guard, i am convinced she would have had my blood.

i think the better of her for it, said i, indignantly.

mr. littimer bent his head, as much as to say, indeed, sir but youre young and resumed his narrative.

it was necessary, in short, for a time, to take away everything nigh her, that she could do herself, or anybody else, an injury with, and to shut her up close. notwithstanding which, she got out in the night forced the lattice of a window, that i had nailed up myself dropped on a vine that was trailed below and never has been seen or heard of, to my knowledge, since.

she is dead, perhaps, said miss dartle, with a smile, as if she could have spurned the body of the ruined girl.

she may have drowned herself, miss, returned mr. littimer, catching at an excuse for addressing himself to somebody. its very possible. or, she may have had assistance from the boatmen, and the boatmens wives and children. being given to low company, she was very much in the habit of talking to them on the beach, miss dartle, and sitting by their boats. i have known her do it, when mr. james has been away, whole days. mr. james was far from pleased to find out, once, that she had told the children she was a boatmans daughter, and that in her own country, long ago, she had roamed about the beach, like them.

oh, emily unhappy beauty what a picture rose before me of her sitting on the faroff shore, among the children like herself when she was innocent, listening to little voices such as might have called her mother had she been a poor mans wife and to the great voice of the sea, with its eternal never more

when it was clear that nothing could be done, miss dartle 

did i tell you not to speak to me she said, with stern contempt.

you spoke to me, miss, he replied. i beg your pardon. but it is my service to obey.

do your service, she returned. finish your story, and go

when it was clear, he said, with infinite respectability and an obedient bow, that she was not to be found, i went to mr. james, at the place where it had been agreed that i should write to him, and informed him of what had occurred. words passed between us in consequence, and i felt it due to my character to leave him. i could bear, and i have borne, a great deal from mr. james but he insulted me too far. he hurt me. knowing the unfortunate difference between himself and his mother, and what her anxiety of mind was likely to be, i took the liberty of coming home to england, and relating 

for money which i paid him, said miss dartle to me.

just so, maam  and relating what i knew. i am not aware, said mr. littimer, after a moments reflection, that there is anything else. i am at present out of employment, and should be happy to meet with a respectable situation.

miss dartle glanced at me, as though she would inquire if there were anything that i desired to ask. as there was something which had occurred to my mind, i said in reply i could wish to know from this  creature, i could not bring myself to utter any more conciliatory word, whether they intercepted a letter that was written to her from home, or whether he supposes that she received it.

he remained calm and silent, with his eyes fixed on the ground, and the tip of every finger of his right hand delicately poised against the tip of every finger of his left.

miss dartle turned her head disdainfully towards him.

i beg your pardon, miss, he said, awakening from his abstraction, but, however submissive to you, i have my position, though a servant. mr. copperfield and you, miss, are different people. if mr. copperfield wishes to know anything from me, i take the liberty of reminding mr. copperfield that he can put a question to me. i have a character to maintain.

after a momentary struggle with myself, i turned my eyes upon him, and said, you have heard my question. consider it addressed to yourself, if you choose. what answer do you make

sir, he rejoined, with an occasional separation and reunion of those delicate tips, my answer must be qualified because, to betray mr. jamess confidence to his mother, and to betray it to you, are two different actions. it is not probable, i consider, that mr. james would encourage the receipt of letters likely to increase low spirits and unpleasantness but further than that, sir, i should wish to avoid going.

is that all inquired miss dartle of me.

i indicated that i had nothing more to say. except, i added, as i saw him moving off, that i understand this fellows part in the wicked story, and that, as i shall make it known to the honest man who has been her father from her childhood, i would recommend him to avoid going too much into public.

he had stopped the moment i began, and had listened with his usual repose of manner.

thank you, sir. but youll excuse me if i say, sir, that there are neither slaves nor slavedrivers in this country, and that people are not allowed to take the law into their own hands. if they do, it is more to their own peril, i believe, than to other peoples. consequently speaking, i am not at all afraid of going wherever i may wish, sir.

with that, he made a polite bow and, with another to miss dartle, went away through the arch in the wall of holly by which he had come. miss dartle and i regarded each other for a little while in silence her manner being exactly what it was, when she had produced the man.

he says besides, she observed, with a slow curling of her lip, that his master, as he hears, is coasting spain and this done, is away to gratify his seafaring tastes till he is weary. but this is of no interest to you. between these two proud persons, mother and son, there is a wider breach than before, and little hope of its healing, for they are one at heart, and time makes each more obstinate and imperious. neither is this of any interest to you but it introduces what i wish to say. this devil whom you make an angel of. i mean this low girl whom he picked out of the tidemud, with her black eyes full upon me, and her passionate finger up, may be alive,  for i believe some common things are hard to die. if she is, you will desire to have a pearl of such price found and taken care of. we desire that, too that he may not by any chance be made her prey again. so far, we are united in one interest and that is why i, who would do her any mischief that so coarse a wretch is capable of feeling, have sent for you to hear what you have heard.

i saw, by the change in her face, that someone was advancing behind me. it was mrs. steerforth, who gave me her hand more coldly than of yore, and with an augmentation of her former stateliness of manner, but still, i perceived  and i was touched by it  with an ineffaceable remembrance of my old love for her son. she was greatly altered. her fine figure was far less upright, her handsome face was deeply marked, and her hair was almost white.

but when she sat down on the seat, she was a handsome lady still and well i knew the bright eye with its lofty look, that had been a light in my very dreams at school.

is mr. copperfield informed of everything, rosa

yes.

and has he heard littimer himself

yes i have told him why you wished it.

you are a good girl. i have had some slight correspondence with your former friend, sir, addressing me, but it has not restored his sense of duty or natural obligation. therefore i have no other object in this, than what rosa has mentioned. if, by the course which may relieve the mind of the decent man you brought here for whom i am sorry  i can say no more, my son may be saved from again falling into the snares of a designing enemy, well

she drew herself up, and sat looking straight before her, far away.

madam, i said respectfully, i understand. i assure you i am in no danger of putting any strained construction on your motives.

but i must say, even to you, having known this injured family from childhood, that if you suppose the girl, so deeply wronged, has not been cruelly deluded, and would not rather die a hundred deaths than take a cup of water from your sons hand now, you cherish a terrible mistake.

well, rosa, well said mrs. steerforth, as the other was about to interpose, it is no matter. let it be. you are married, sir, i am told

i answered that i had been some time married.

and are doing well i hear little in the quiet life i lead, but i understand you are beginning to be famous.

i have been very fortunate, i said, and find my name connected with some praise.

you have no mother  in a softened voice.

no.

it is a pity, she returned. she would have been proud of you.

good night

i took the hand she held out with a dignified, unbending air, and it was as calm in mine as if her breast had been at peace. her pride could still its very pulses, it appeared, and draw the placid veil before her face, through which she sat looking straight before her on the far distance.

as i moved away from them along the terrace, i could not help observing how steadily they both sat gazing on the prospect, and how it thickened and closed around them. here and there, some early lamps were seen to twinkle in the distant city and in the eastern quarter of the sky the lurid light still hovered. but, from the greater part of the broad valley interposed, a mist was rising like a sea, which, mingling with the darkness, made it seem as if the gathering waters would encompass them. i have reason to remember this, and think of it with awe for before i looked upon those two again, a stormy sea had risen to their feet.

reflecting on what had been thus told me, i felt it right that it should be communicated to mr. peggotty. on the following evening i went into london in quest of him. he was always wandering about from place to place, with his one object of recovering his niece before him but was more in london than elsewhere. often and often, now, had i seen him in the dead of night passing along the streets, searching, among the few who loitered out of doors at those untimely hours, for what he dreaded to find.

he kept a lodging over the little chandlers shop in hungerford market, which i have had occasion to mention more than once, and from which he first went forth upon his errand of mercy. hither i directed my walk. on making inquiry for him, i learned from the people of the house that he had not gone out yet, and i should find him in his room upstairs.

he was sitting reading by a window in which he kept a few plants.

the room was very neat and orderly. i saw in a moment that it was always kept prepared for her reception, and that he never went out but he thought it possible he might bring her home. he had not heard my tap at the door, and only raised his eyes when i laid my hand upon his shoulder.

masr davy thankee, sir thankee hearty, for this visit sit ye down. youre kindly welcome, sir

mr. peggotty, said i, taking the chair he handed me, dont expect much i have heard some news.

of emly

he put his hand, in a nervous manner, on his mouth, and turned pale, as he fixed his eyes on mine.

it gives no clue to where she is but she is not with him.

he sat down, looking intently at me, and listened in profound silence to all i had to tell. i well remember the sense of dignity, beauty even, with which the patient gravity of his face impressed me, when, having gradually removed his eyes from mine, he sat looking downward, leaning his forehead on his hand. he offered no interruption, but remained throughout perfectly still. he seemed to pursue her figure through the narrative, and to let every other shape go by him, as if it were nothing.

when i had done, he shaded his face, and continued silent. i looked out of the window for a little while, and occupied myself with the plants.

how do you fare to feel about it, masr davy he inquired at length.

i think that she is living, i replied.

i doent know. maybe the first shock was too rough, and in the wildness of her art  that there blue water as she used to speak on. could she have thowt o that so many year, because it was to be her grave

he said this, musing, in a low, frightened voice and walked across the little room.

and yet, he added, masr davy, i have felt so sure as she was living  i have knowd, awake and sleeping, as it was so trew that i should find her  i have been so led on by it, and held up by it  that i doent believe i can have been deceived. no emlys alive

he put his hand down firmly on the table, and set his sunburnt face into a resolute expression.

my niece, emly, is alive, sir he said, steadfastly. i doent know wheer it comes from, or how tis, but i am told as shes alive

he looked almost like a man inspired, as he said it. i waited for a few moments, until he could give me his undivided attention and then proceeded to explain the precaution, that, it had occurred to me last night, it would be wise to take.

now, my dear friend i began.

thankee, thankee, kind sir, he said, grasping my hand in both of his.

if she should make her way to london, which is likely  for where could she lose herself so readily as in this vast city and what would she wish to do, but lose and hide herself, if she does not go home 

and she wont go home, he interposed, shaking his head mournfully. if she had left of her own accord, she might not as it was, sir.

if she should come here, said i, i believe there is one person, here, more likely to discover her than any other in the world. do you remember  hear what i say, with fortitude  think of your great object  do you remember martha

of our town

i needed no other answer than his face.

do you know that she is in london

i have seen her in the streets, he answered, with a shiver.

but you dont know, said i, that emily was charitable to her, with hams help, long before she fled from home. nor, that, when we met one night, and spoke together in the room yonder, over the way, she listened at the door.

masr davy he replied in astonishment. that night when it snew so hard

that night. i have never seen her since. i went back, after parting from you, to speak to her, but she was gone. i was unwilling to mention her to you then, and i am now but she is the person of whom i speak, and with whom i think we should communicate. do you understand

too well, sir, he replied. we had sunk our voices, almost to a whisper, and continued to speak in that tone.

you say you have seen her. do you think that you could find her

i could only hope to do so by chance.

i think, masr davy, i know wheer to look.

it is dark. being together, shall we go out now, and try to find her tonight

he assented, and prepared to accompany me. without appearing to observe what he was doing, i saw how carefully he adjusted the little room, put a candle ready and the means of lighting it, arranged the bed, and finally took out of a drawer one of her dresses i remember to have seen her wear it, neatly folded with some other garments, and a bonnet, which he placed upon a chair.

he made no allusion to these clothes, neither did i. there they had been waiting for her, many and many a night, no doubt.

the time was, masr davy, he said, as we came downstairs, when i thowt this girl, martha, amost like the dirt underneath my emlys feet. god forgive me, theers a difference now

as we went along, partly to hold him in conversation, and partly to satisfy myself, i asked him about ham. he said, almost in the same words as formerly, that ham was just the same, wearing away his life with kiender no care nohow for t but never murmuring, and liked by all.

i asked him what he thought hams state of mind was, in reference to the cause of their misfortunes whether he believed it was dangerous what he supposed, for example, ham would do, if he and steerforth ever should encounter i doent know, sir, he replied. i have thowt of it oftentimes, but i cant awize myself of it, no matters.

i recalled to his remembrance the morning after her departure, when we were all three on the beach. do you recollect, said i, a certain wild way in which he looked out to sea, and spoke about the end of it

sure i do said he.

what do you suppose he meant

masr davy, he replied, ive put the question to myself a mort o times, and never found no answer. and theers one curious thing  that, though he is so pleasant, i wouldnt fare to feel comfortable to try and get his mind upon t. he never said a wured to me as warnt as dootiful as dootiful could be, and it aint likely as hed begin to speak any other ways now but its fur from being fleet water in his mind, where them thowts lays. its deep, sir, and i cant see down.

you are right, said i, and that has sometimes made me anxious.

and me too, masr davy, he rejoined. even more so, i do assure you, than his ventersome ways, though both belongs to the alteration in him. i doent know as hed do violence under any circumstances, but i hope as them two may be kep asunders.

we had come, through temple bar, into the city. conversing no more now, and walking at my side, he yielded himself up to the one aim of his devoted life, and went on, with that hushed concentration of his faculties which would have made his figure solitary in a multitude. we were not far from blackfriars bridge, when he turned his head and pointed to a solitary female figure flitting along the opposite side of the street. i knew it, readily, to be the figure that we sought.

we crossed the road, and were pressing on towards her, when it occurred to me that she might be more disposed to feel a womans interest in the lost girl, if we spoke to her in a quieter place, aloof from the crowd, and where we should be less observed. i advised my companion, therefore, that we should not address her yet, but follow her consulting in this, likewise, an indistinct desire i had, to know where she went.

he acquiescing, we followed at a distance never losing sight of her, but never caring to come very near, as she frequently looked about. once, she stopped to listen to a band of music and then we stopped too.

she went on a long way. still we went on. it was evident, from the manner in which she held her course, that she was going to some fixed destination and this, and her keeping in the busy streets, and i suppose the strange fascination in the secrecy and mystery of so following anyone, made me adhere to my first purpose. at length she turned into a dull, dark street, where the noise and crowd were lost and i said, we may speak to her now and, mending our pace, we went after her.



chapter 

martha

we were now down in westminster. we had turned back to follow her, having encountered her coming towards us and westminster abbey was the point at which she passed from the lights and noise of the leading streets. she proceeded so quickly, when she got free of the two currents of passengers setting towards and from the bridge, that, between this and the advance she had of us when she struck off, we were in the narrow waterside street by millbank before we came up with her. at that moment she crossed the road, as if to avoid the footsteps that she heard so close behind and, without looking back, passed on even more rapidly.

a glimpse of the river through a dull gateway, where some waggons were housed for the night, seemed to arrest my feet. i touched my companion without speaking, and we both forbore to cross after her, and both followed on that opposite side of the way keeping as quietly as we could in the shadow of the houses, but keeping very near her.

there was, and is when i write, at the end of that lowlying street, a dilapidated little wooden building, probably an obsolete old ferryhouse. its position is just at that point where the street ceases, and the road begins to lie between a row of houses and the river. as soon as she came here, and saw the water, she stopped as if she had come to her destination and presently went slowly along by the brink of the river, looking intently at it.

all the way here, i had supposed that she was going to some house indeed, i had vaguely entertained the hope that the house might be in some way associated with the lost girl. but that one dark glimpse of the river, through the gateway, had instinctively prepared me for her going no farther.

the neighbourhood was a dreary one at that time as oppressive, sad, and solitary by night, as any about london. there were neither wharves nor houses on the melancholy waste of road near the great blank prison. a sluggish ditch deposited its mud at the prison walls. coarse grass and rank weeds straggled over all the marshy land in the vicinity. in one part, carcases of houses, inauspiciously begun and never finished, rotted away. in another, the ground was cumbered with rusty iron monsters of steamboilers, wheels, cranks, pipes, furnaces, paddles, anchors, divingbells, windmillsails, and i know not what strange objects, accumulated by some speculator, and grovelling in the dust, underneath which  having sunk into the soil of their own weight in wet weather  they had the appearance of vainly trying to hide themselves. the clash and glare of sundry fiery works upon the riverside, arose by night to disturb everything except the heavy and unbroken smoke that poured out of their chimneys. slimy gaps and causeways, winding among old wooden piles, with a sickly substance clinging to the latter, like green hair, and the rags of last years handbills offering rewards for drowned men fluttering above highwater mark, led down through the ooze and slush to the ebbtide. there was a story that one of the pits dug for the dead in the time of the great plague was hereabout and a blighting influence seemed to have proceeded from it over the whole place. or else it looked as if it had gradually decomposed into that nightmare condition, out of the overflowings of the polluted stream.

as if she were a part of the refuse it had cast out, and left to corruption and decay, the girl we had followed strayed down to the rivers brink, and stood in the midst of this nightpicture, lonely and still, looking at the water.

there were some boats and barges astrand in the mud, and these enabled us to come within a few yards of her without being seen.

i then signed to mr. peggotty to remain where he was, and emerged from their shade to speak to her. i did not approach her solitary figure without trembling for this gloomy end to her determined walk, and the way in which she stood, almost within the cavernous shadow of the iron bridge, looking at the lights crookedly reflected in the strong tide, inspired a dread within me.

i think she was talking to herself. i am sure, although absorbed in gazing at the water, that her shawl was off her shoulders, and that she was muffling her hands in it, in an unsettled and bewildered way, more like the action of a sleepwalker than a waking person. i know, and never can forget, that there was that in her wild manner which gave me no assurance but that she would sink before my eyes, until i had her arm within my grasp.

at the same moment i said martha

she uttered a terrified scream, and struggled with me with such strength that i doubt if i could have held her alone. but a stronger hand than mine was laid upon her and when she raised her frightened eyes and saw whose it was, she made but one more effort and dropped down between us. we carried her away from the water to where there were some dry stones, and there laid her down, crying and moaning. in a little while she sat among the stones, holding her wretched head with both her hands.

oh, the river she cried passionately. oh, the river

hush, hush said i. calm yourself.

but she still repeated the same words, continually exclaiming, oh, the river over and over again.

i know its like me she exclaimed. i know that i belong to it.

i know that its the natural company of such as i am it comes from country places, where there was once no harm in it  and it creeps through the dismal streets, defiled and miserable  and it goes away, like my life, to a great sea, that is always troubled  and i feel that i must go with it

i have never known what despair was, except in the tone of those words.

i cant keep away from it. i cant forget it. it haunts me day and night. its the only thing in all the world that i am fit for, or thats fit for me. oh, the dreadful river

the thought passed through my mind that in the face of my companion, as he looked upon her without speech or motion, i might have read his nieces history, if i had known nothing of it. i never saw, in any painting or reality, horror and compassion so impressively blended. he shook as if he would have fallen and his hand  i touched it with my own, for his appearance alarmed me  was deadly cold.

she is in a state of frenzy, i whispered to him. she will speak differently in a little time.

i dont know what he would have said in answer. he made some motion with his mouth, and seemed to think he had spoken but he had only pointed to her with his outstretched hand.

a new burst of crying came upon her now, in which she once more hid her face among the stones, and lay before us, a prostrate image of humiliation and ruin. knowing that this state must pass, before we could speak to her with any hope, i ventured to restrain him when he would have raised her, and we stood by in silence until she became more tranquil.

martha, said i then, leaning down, and helping her to rise  she seemed to want to rise as if with the intention of going away, but she was weak, and leaned against a boat. do you know who this is, who is with me

she said faintly, yes.

do you know that we have followed you a long way tonight

she shook her head. she looked neither at him nor at me, but stood in a humble attitude, holding her bonnet and shawl in one hand, without appearing conscious of them, and pressing the other, clenched, against her forehead.

are you composed enough, said i, to speak on the subject which so interested you  i hope heaven may remember it  that snowy night

her sobs broke out afresh, and she murmured some inarticulate thanks to me for not having driven her away from the door.

i want to say nothing for myself, she said, after a few moments.

i am bad, i am lost. i have no hope at all. but tell him, sir, she had shrunk away from him, if you dont feel too hard to me to do it, that i never was in any way the cause of his misfortune.

it has never been attributed to you, i returned, earnestly responding to her earnestness.

it was you, if i dont deceive myself, she said, in a broken voice, that came into the kitchen, the night she took such pity on me was so gentle to me didnt shrink away from me like all the rest, and gave me such kind help was it you, sir

it was, said i.

i should have been in the river long ago, she said, glancing at it with a terrible expression, if any wrong to her had been upon my mind. i never could have kept out of it a single winters night, if i had not been free of any share in that

the cause of her flight is too well understood, i said. you are innocent of any part in it, we thoroughly believe,  we know.

oh, i might have been much the better for her, if i had had a better heart exclaimed the girl, with most forlorn regret for she was always good to me she never spoke a word to me but what was pleasant and right. is it likely i would try to make her what i am myself, knowing what i am myself, so well when i lost everything that makes life dear, the worst of all my thoughts was that i was parted for ever from her

mr. peggotty, standing with one hand on the gunwale of the boat, and his eyes cast down, put his disengaged hand before his face.

and when i heard what had happened before that snowy night, from some belonging to our town, cried martha, the bitterest thought in all my mind was, that the people would remember she once kept company with me, and would say i had corrupted her when, heaven knows, i would have died to have brought back her good name

long unused to any selfcontrol, the piercing agony of her remorse and grief was terrible.

to have died, would not have been much  what can i say  i would have lived she cried. i would have lived to be old, in the wretched streets  and to wander about, avoided, in the dark  and to see the day break on the ghastly line of houses, and remember how the same sun used to shine into my room, and wake me once  i would have done even that, to save her

sinking on the stones, she took some in each hand, and clenched them up, as if she would have ground them. she writhed into some new posture constantly stiffening her arms, twisting them before her face, as though to shut out from her eyes the little light there was, and drooping her head, as if it were heavy with insupportable recollections.

what shall i ever do she said, fighting thus with her despair.

how can i go on as i am, a solitary curse to myself, a living disgrace to everyone i come near suddenly she turned to my companion. stamp upon me, kill me when she was your pride, you would have thought i had done her harm if i had brushed against her in the street. you cant believe  why should you  a syllable that comes out of my lips. it would be a burning shame upon you, even now, if she and i exchanged a word. i dont complain. i dont say she and i are alike  i know there is a long, long way between us. i only say, with all my guilt and wretchedness upon my head, that i am grateful to her from my soul, and love her. oh, dont think that all the power i had of loving anything is quite worn out throw me away, as all the world does. kill me for being what i am, and having ever known her but dont think that of me

he looked upon her, while she made this supplication, in a wild distracted manner and, when she was silent, gently raised her.

martha, said mr. peggotty, god forbid as i should judge you.

forbid as i, of all men, should do that, my girl you doent know half the change thats come, in course of time, upon me, when you think it likely. well he paused a moment, then went on. you doent understand how tis that this here gentleman and me has wished to speak to you. you doent understand what tis we has afore us. listen now

his influence upon her was complete. she stood, shrinkingly, before him, as if she were afraid to meet his eyes but her passionate sorrow was quite hushed and mute.

if you heerd, said mr. peggotty, owt of what passed between masr davy and me, th night when it snew so hard, you know as i have been  wheer not  fur to seek my dear niece. my dear niece, he repeated steadily. fur shes more dear to me now, martha, than she was dear afore.

she put her hands before her face but otherwise remained quiet.

i have heerd her tell, said mr. peggotty, as you was early left fatherless and motherless, with no friend fur to take, in a rough seafaringway, their place. maybe you can guess that if youd had such a friend, youd have got into a way of being fond of him in course of time, and that my niece was kiender daughterlike to me.

as she was silently trembling, he put her shawl carefully about her, taking it up from the ground for that purpose.

whereby, said he, i know, both as she would go to the wurelds furdest end with me, if she could once see me again and that she would fly to the wurelds furdest end to keep off seeing me. for though she aint no call to doubt my love, and doent  and doent, he repeated, with a quiet assurance of the truth of what he said, theres shame steps in, and keeps betwixt us.

i read, in every word of his plain impressive way of delivering himself, new evidence of his having thought of this one topic, in every feature it presented.

according to our reckoning, he proceeded, masr davys here, and mine, she is like, one day, to make her own poor solitary course to london. we believe  masr davy, me, and all of us  that you are as innocent of everything that has befell her, as the unborn child.

youve spoke of her being pleasant, kind, and gentle to you. bless her, i knew she was i knew she always was, to all. youre thankful to her, and you love her. help us all you can to find her, and may heaven reward you

she looked at him hastily, and for the first time, as if she were doubtful of what he had said.

will you trust me she asked, in a low voice of astonishment.

full and free said mr. peggotty.

to speak to her, if i should ever find her shelter her, if i have any shelter to divide with her and then, without her knowledge, come to you, and bring you to her she asked hurriedly.

we both replied together, yes

she lifted up her eyes, and solemnly declared that she would devote herself to this task, fervently and faithfully. that she would never waver in it, never be diverted from it, never relinquish it, while there was any chance of hope. if she were not true to it, might the object she now had in life, which bound her to something devoid of evil, in its passing away from her, leave her more forlorn and more despairing, if that were possible, than she had been upon the rivers brink that night and then might all help, human and divine, renounce her evermore

she did not raise her voice above her breath, or address us, but said this to the night sky then stood profoundly quiet, looking at the gloomy water.

we judged it expedient, now, to tell her all we knew which i recounted at length. she listened with great attention, and with a face that often changed, but had the same purpose in all its varying expressions. her eyes occasionally filled with tears, but those she repressed. it seemed as if her spirit were quite altered, and she could not be too quiet.

she asked, when all was told, where we were to be communicated with, if occasion should arise. under a dull lamp in the road, i wrote our two addresses on a leaf of my pocketbook, which i tore out and gave to her, and which she put in her poor bosom. i asked her where she lived herself. she said, after a pause, in no place long. it were better not to know.

mr. peggotty suggesting to me, in a whisper, what had already occurred to myself, i took out my purse but i could not prevail upon her to accept any money, nor could i exact any promise from her that she would do so at another time. i represented to her that mr. peggotty could not be called, for one in his condition, poor and that the idea of her engaging in this search, while depending on her own resources, shocked us both. she continued steadfast. in this particular, his influence upon her was equally powerless with mine. she gratefully thanked him but remained inexorable.

there may be work to be got, she said. ill try.

at least take some assistance, i returned, until you have tried.

i could not do what i have promised, for money, she replied. i could not take it, if i was starving. to give me money would be to take away your trust, to take away the object that you have given me, to take away the only certain thing that saves me from the river.

in the name of the great judge, said i, before whom you and all of us must stand at his dread time, dismiss that terrible idea we can all do some good, if we will.

she trembled, and her lip shook, and her face was paler, as she answered it has been put into your hearts, perhaps, to save a wretched creature for repentance. i am afraid to think so it seems too bold. if any good should come of me, i might begin to hope for nothing but harm has ever come of my deeds yet. i am to be trusted, for the first time in a long while, with my miserable life, on account of what you have given me to try for. i know no more, and i can say no more.

again she repressed the tears that had begun to flow and, putting out her trembling hand, and touching mr. peggotty, as if there was some healing virtue in him, went away along the desolate road. she had been ill, probably for a long time. i observed, upon that closer opportunity of observation, that she was worn and haggard, and that her sunken eyes expressed privation and endurance.

we followed her at a short distance, our way lying in the same direction, until we came back into the lighted and populous streets. i had such implicit confidence in her declaration, that i then put it to mr. peggotty, whether it would not seem, in the onset, like distrusting her, to follow her any farther. he being of the same mind, and equally reliant on her, we suffered her to take her own road, and took ours, which was towards highgate. he accompanied me a good part of the way and when we parted, with a prayer for the success of this fresh effort, there was a new and thoughtful compassion in him that i was at no loss to interpret.

it was midnight when i arrived at home. i had reached my own gate, and was standing listening for the deep bell of st. pauls, the sound of which i thought had been borne towards me among the multitude of striking clocks, when i was rather surprised to see that the door of my aunts cottage was open, and that a faint light in the entry was shining out across the road.

thinking that my aunt might have relapsed into one of her old alarms, and might be watching the progress of some imaginary conflagration in the distance, i went to speak to her. it was with very great surprise that i saw a man standing in her little garden.

he had a glass and bottle in his hand, and was in the act of drinking. i stopped short, among the thick foliage outside, for the moon was up now, though obscured and i recognized the man whom i had once supposed to be a delusion of mr. dicks, and had once encountered with my aunt in the streets of the city.

he was eating as well as drinking, and seemed to eat with a hungry appetite. he seemed curious regarding the cottage, too, as if it were the first time he had seen it. after stooping to put the bottle on the ground, he looked up at the windows, and looked about though with a covert and impatient air, as if he was anxious to be gone.

the light in the passage was obscured for a moment, and my aunt came out. she was agitated, and told some money into his hand. i heard it chink.

whats the use of this he demanded.

i can spare no more, returned my aunt.

then i cant go, said he. here you may take it back

you bad man, returned my aunt, with great emotion how can you use me so but why do i ask it is because you know how weak i am what have i to do, to free myself for ever of your visits, but to abandon you to your deserts

and why dont you abandon me to my deserts said he.

you ask me why returned my aunt. what a heart you must have

he stood moodily rattling the money, and shaking his head, until at length he said is this all you mean to give me, then

it is all i can give you, said my aunt. you know i have had losses, and am poorer than i used to be. i have told you so.

having got it, why do you give me the pain of looking at you for another moment, and seeing what you have become

i have become shabby enough, if you mean that, he said. i lead the life of an owl.

you stripped me of the greater part of all i ever had, said my aunt. you closed my heart against the whole world, years and years. you treated me falsely, ungratefully, and cruelly. go, and repent of it. dont add new injuries to the long, long list of injuries you have done me

aye he returned. its all very fine  well i must do the best i can, for the present, i suppose.

in spite of himself, he appeared abashed by my aunts indignant tears, and came slouching out of the garden. taking two or three quick steps, as if i had just come up, i met him at the gate, and went in as he came out. we eyed one another narrowly in passing, and with no favour.

aunt, said i, hurriedly. this man alarming you again let me speak to him. who is he

child, returned my aunt, taking my arm, come in, and dont speak to me for ten minutes.

we sat down in her little parlour. my aunt retired behind the round green fan of former days, which was screwed on the back of a chair, and occasionally wiped her eyes, for about a quarter of an hour. then she came out, and took a seat beside me.

trot, said my aunt, calmly, its my husband.

your husband, aunt i thought he had been dead

dead to me, returned my aunt, but living.

i sat in silent amazement.

betsey trotwood dont look a likely subject for the tender passion, said my aunt, composedly, but the time was, trot, when she believed in that man most entirely. when she loved him, trot, right well. when there was no proof of attachment and affection that she would not have given him. he repaid her by breaking her fortune, and nearly breaking her heart. so she put all that sort of sentiment, once and for ever, in a grave, and filled it up, and flattened it down.

my dear, good aunt

i left him, my aunt proceeded, laying her hand as usual on the back of mine, generously. i may say at this distance of time, trot, that i left him generously. he had been so cruel to me, that i might have effected a separation on easy terms for myself but i did not. he soon made ducks and drakes of what i gave him, sank lower and lower, married another woman, i believe, became an adventurer, a gambler, and a cheat. what he is now, you see. but he was a finelooking man when i married him, said my aunt, with an echo of her old pride and admiration in her tone and i believed him  i was a fool  to be the soul of honour

she gave my hand a squeeze, and shook her head.

he is nothing to me now, trot less than nothing. but, sooner than have him punished for his offences as he would be if he prowled about in this country, i give him more money than i can afford, at intervals when he reappears, to go away. i was a fool when i married him and i am so far an incurable fool on that subject, that, for the sake of what i once believed him to be, i wouldnt have even this shadow of my idle fancy hardly dealt with.

for i was in earnest, trot, if ever a woman was.

my aunt dismissed the matter with a heavy sigh, and smoothed her dress.

there, my dear she said. now you know the beginning, middle, and end, and all about it. we wont mention the subject to one another any more neither, of course, will you mention it to anybody else. this is my grumpy, frumpy story, and well keep it to ourselves, trot



chapter 

domestic

i laboured hard at my book, without allowing it to interfere with the punctual discharge of my newspaper duties and it came out and was very successful. i was not stunned by the praise which sounded in my ears, notwithstanding that i was keenly alive to it, and thought better of my own performance, i have little doubt, than anybody else did. it has always been in my observation of human nature, that a man who has any good reason to believe in himself never flourishes himself before the faces of other people in order that they may believe in him. for this reason, i retained my modesty in very selfrespect and the more praise i got, the more i tried to deserve.

it is not my purpose, in this record, though in all other essentials it is my written memory, to pursue the history of my own fictions. they express themselves, and i leave them to themselves.

when i refer to them, incidentally, it is only as a part of my progress.

having some foundation for believing, by this time, that nature and accident had made me an author, i pursued my vocation with confidence. without such assurance i should certainly have left it alone, and bestowed my energy on some other endeavour. i should have tried to find out what nature and accident really had made me, and to be that, and nothing else.

i had been writing, in the newspaper and elsewhere, so prosperously, that when my new success was achieved, i considered myself reasonably entitled to escape from the dreary debates. one joyful night, therefore, i noted down the music of the parliamentary bagpipes for the last time, and i have never heard it since though i still recognize the old drone in the newspapers, without any substantial variation except, perhaps, that there is more of it, all the livelong session.

i now write of the time when i had been married, i suppose, about a year and a half. after several varieties of experiment, we had given up the housekeeping as a bad job. the house kept itself, and we kept a page. the principal function of this retainer was to quarrel with the cook in which respect he was a perfect whittington, without his cat, or the remotest chance of being made lord mayor.

he appears to me to have lived in a hail of saucepanlids. his whole existence was a scuffle. he would shriek for help on the most improper occasions,  as when we had a little dinnerparty, or a few friends in the evening,  and would come tumbling out of the kitchen, with iron missiles flying after him. we wanted to get rid of him, but he was very much attached to us, and wouldnt go. he was a tearful boy, and broke into such deplorable lamentations, when a cessation of our connexion was hinted at, that we were obliged to keep him. he had no mother  no anything in the way of a relative, that i could discover, except a sister, who fled to america the moment we had taken him off her hands and he became quartered on us like a horrible young changeling. he had a lively perception of his own unfortunate state, and was always rubbing his eyes with the sleeve of his jacket, or stooping to blow his nose on the extreme corner of a little pockethandkerchief, which he never would take completely out of his pocket, but always economized and secreted.

this unlucky page, engaged in an evil hour at six pounds ten per annum, was a source of continual trouble to me. i watched him as he grew  and he grew like scarlet beans  with painful apprehensions of the time when he would begin to shave even of the days when he would be bald or grey. i saw no prospect of ever getting rid of him and, projecting myself into the future, used to think what an inconvenience he would be when he was an old man.

i never expected anything less, than this unfortunates manner of getting me out of my difficulty. he stole doras watch, which, like everything else belonging to us, had no particular place of its own and, converting it into money, spent the produce he was always a weakminded boy in incessantly riding up and down between london and uxbridge outside the coach. he was taken to bow street, as well as i remember, on the completion of his fifteenth journey when fourandsixpence, and a secondhand fife which he couldnt play, were found upon his person.

the surprise and its consequences would have been much less disagreeable to me if he had not been penitent. but he was very penitent indeed, and in a peculiar way  not in the lump, but by instalments. for example the day after that on which i was obliged to appear against him, he made certain revelations touching a hamper in the cellar, which we believed to be full of wine, but which had nothing in it except bottles and corks. we supposed he had now eased his mind, and told the worst he knew of the cook but, a day or two afterwards, his conscience sustained a new twinge, and he disclosed how she had a little girl, who, early every morning, took away our bread and also how he himself had been suborned to maintain the milkman in coals. in two or three days more, i was informed by the authorities of his having led to the discovery of sirloins of beef among the kitchenstuff, and sheets in the ragbag. a little while afterwards, he broke out in an entirely new direction, and confessed to a knowledge of burglarious intentions as to our premises, on the part of the potboy, who was immediately taken up. i got to be so ashamed of being such a victim, that i would have given him any money to hold his tongue, or would have offered a round bribe for his being permitted to run away. it was an aggravating circumstance in the case that he had no idea of this, but conceived that he was making me amends in every new discovery not to say, heaping obligations on my head.

at last i ran away myself, whenever i saw an emissary of the police approaching with some new intelligence and lived a stealthy life until he was tried and ordered to be transported. even then he couldnt be quiet, but was always writing us letters and wanted so much to see dora before he went away, that dora went to visit him, and fainted when she found herself inside the iron bars. in short, i had no peace of my life until he was expatriated, and made as i afterwards heard a shepherd of, up the country somewhere i have no geographical idea where.

all this led me into some serious reflections, and presented our mistakes in a new aspect as i could not help communicating to dora one evening, in spite of my tenderness for her.

my love, said i, it is very painful to me to think that our want of system and management, involves not only ourselves which we have got used to, but other people.

you have been silent for a long time, and now you are going to be cross said dora.

no, my dear, indeed let me explain to you what i mean.

i think i dont want to know, said dora.

but i want you to know, my love. put jip down.

dora put his nose to mine, and said boh to drive my seriousness away but, not succeeding, ordered him into his pagoda, and sat looking at me, with her hands folded, and a most resigned little expression of countenance.

the fact is, my dear, i began, there is contagion in us. we infect everyone about us.

i might have gone on in this figurative manner, if doras face had not admonished me that she was wondering with all her might whether i was going to propose any new kind of vaccination, or other medical remedy, for this unwholesome state of ours. therefore i checked myself, and made my meaning plainer.

it is not merely, my pet, said i, that we lose money and comfort, and even temper sometimes, by not learning to be more careful but that we incur the serious responsibility of spoiling everyone who comes into our service, or has any dealings with us.

i begin to be afraid that the fault is not entirely on one side, but that these people all turn out ill because we dont turn out very well ourselves.

oh, what an accusation, exclaimed dora, opening her eyes wide to say that you ever saw me take gold watches oh

my dearest, i remonstrated, dont talk preposterous nonsense

who has made the least allusion to gold watches

you did, returned dora. you know you did. you said i hadnt turned out well, and compared me to him.

to whom i asked.

to the page, sobbed dora. oh, you cruel fellow, to compare your affectionate wife to a transported page why didnt you tell me your opinion of me before we were married why didnt you say, you hardhearted thing, that you were convinced i was worse than a transported page oh, what a dreadful opinion to have of me oh, my goodness

now, dora, my love, i returned, gently trying to remove the handkerchief she pressed to her eyes, this is not only very ridiculous of you, but very wrong. in the first place, its not true.

you always said he was a storyteller, sobbed dora. and now you say the same of me oh, what shall i do what shall i do

my darling girl, i retorted, i really must entreat you to be reasonable, and listen to what i did say, and do say. my dear dora, unless we learn to do our duty to those whom we employ, they will never learn to do their duty to us. i am afraid we present opportunities to people to do wrong, that never ought to be presented. even if we were as lax as we are, in all our arrangements, by choice  which we are not  even if we liked it, and found it agreeable to be so  which we dont  i am persuaded we should have no right to go on in this way. we are positively corrupting people. we are bound to think of that. i cant help thinking of it, dora. it is a reflection i am unable to dismiss, and it sometimes makes me very uneasy. there, dear, thats all.

come now. dont be foolish

dora would not allow me, for a long time, to remove the handkerchief. she sat sobbing and murmuring behind it, that, if i was uneasy, why had i ever been married why hadnt i said, even the day before we went to church, that i knew i should be uneasy, and i would rather not if i couldnt bear her, why didnt i send her away to her aunts at putney, or to julia mills in india julia would be glad to see her, and would not call her a transported page julia never had called her anything of the sort. in short, dora was so afflicted, and so afflicted me by being in that condition, that i felt it was of no use repeating this kind of effort, though never so mildly, and i must take some other course.

what other course was left to take to form her mind this was a common phrase of words which had a fair and promising sound, and i resolved to form doras mind.

i began immediately. when dora was very childish, and i would have infinitely preferred to humour her, i tried to be grave  and disconcerted her, and myself too. i talked to her on the subjects which occupied my thoughts and i read shakespeare to her  and fatigued her to the last degree. i accustomed myself to giving her, as it were quite casually, little scraps of useful information, or sound opinion  and she started from them when i let them off, as if they had been crackers. no matter how incidentally or naturally i endeavoured to form my little wifes mind, i could not help seeing that she always had an instinctive perception of what i was about, and became a prey to the keenest apprehensions. in particular, it was clear to me, that she thought shakespeare a terrible fellow. the formation went on very slowly.

i pressed traddles into the service without his knowledge and whenever he came to see us, exploded my mines upon him for the edification of dora at second hand. the amount of practical wisdom i bestowed upon traddles in this manner was immense, and of the best quality but it had no other effect upon dora than to depress her spirits, and make her always nervous with the dread that it would be her turn next. i found myself in the condition of a schoolmaster, a trap, a pitfall of always playing spider to doras fly, and always pouncing out of my hole to her infinite disturbance.

still, looking forward through this intermediate stage, to the time when there should be a perfect sympathy between dora and me, and when i should have formed her mind to my entire satisfaction, i persevered, even for months. finding at last, however, that, although i had been all this time a very porcupine or hedgehog, bristling all over with determination, i had effected nothing, it began to occur to me that perhaps doras mind was already formed.

on further consideration this appeared so likely, that i abandoned my scheme, which had had a more promising appearance in words than in action resolving henceforth to be satisfied with my childwife, and to try to change her into nothing else by any process. i was heartily tired of being sagacious and prudent by myself, and of seeing my darling under restraint so i bought a pretty pair of earrings for her, and a collar for jip, and went home one day to make myself agreeable.

dora was delighted with the little presents, and kissed me joyfully but there was a shadow between us, however slight, and i had made up my mind that it should not be there. if there must be such a shadow anywhere, i would keep it for the future in my own breast.

i sat down by my wife on the sofa, and put the earrings in her ears and then i told her that i feared we had not been quite as good company lately, as we used to be, and that the fault was mine.

which i sincerely felt, and which indeed it was.

the truth is, dora, my life, i said i have been trying to be wise.

and to make me wise too, said dora, timidly. havent you, doady

i nodded assent to the pretty inquiry of the raised eyebrows, and kissed the parted lips.

its of not a bit of use, said dora, shaking her head, until the earrings rang again. you know what a little thing i am, and what i wanted you to call me from the first. if you cant do so, i am afraid youll never like me. are you sure you dont think, sometimes, it would have been better to have 

done what, my dear for she made no effort to proceed.

nothing said dora.

nothing i repeated.

she put her arms round my neck, and laughed, and called herself by her favourite name of a goose, and hid her face on my shoulder in such a profusion of curls that it was quite a task to clear them away and see it.

dont i think it would have been better to have done nothing, than to have tried to form my little wifes mind said i, laughing at myself. is that the question yes, indeed, i do.

is that what you have been trying cried dora. oh what a shocking boy

but i shall never try any more, said i. for i love her dearly as she is.

without a story  really inquired dora, creeping closer to me.

why should i seek to change, said i, what has been so precious to me for so long you never can show better than as your own natural self, my sweet dora and well try no conceited experiments, but go back to our old way, and be happy.

and be happy returned dora. yes all day and you wont mind things going a tiny morsel wrong, sometimes

no, no, said i. we must do the best we can.

and you wont tell me, any more, that we make other people bad, coaxed dora will you because you know its so dreadfully cross

no, no, said i.

its better for me to be stupid than uncomfortable, isnt it said dora.

better to be naturally dora than anything else in the world.

in the world ah, doady, its a large place

she shook her head, turned her delighted bright eyes up to mine, kissed me, broke into a merry laugh, and sprang away to put on jips new collar.

so ended my last attempt to make any change in dora. i had been unhappy in trying it i could not endure my own solitary wisdom i could not reconcile it with her former appeal to me as my childwife. i resolved to do what i could, in a quiet way, to improve our proceedings myself, but i foresaw that my utmost would be very little, or i must degenerate into the spider again, and be for ever lying in wait.

and the shadow i have mentioned, that was not to be between us any more, but was to rest wholly on my own heart how did that fall

the old unhappy feeling pervaded my life. it was deepened, if it were changed at all but it was as undefined as ever, and addressed me like a strain of sorrowful music faintly heard in the night. i loved my wife dearly, and i was happy but the happiness i had vaguely anticipated, once, was not the happiness i enjoyed, and there was always something wanting.

in fulfilment of the compact i have made with myself, to reflect my mind on this paper, i again examine it, closely, and bring its secrets to the light. what i missed, i still regarded  i always regarded  as something that had been a dream of my youthful fancy that was incapable of realization that i was now discovering to be so, with some natural pain, as all men did. but that it would have been better for me if my wife could have helped me more, and shared the many thoughts in which i had no partner and that this might have been i knew.

between these two irreconcilable conclusions the one, that what i felt was general and unavoidable the other, that it was particular to me, and might have been different i balanced curiously, with no distinct sense of their opposition to each other. when i thought of the airy dreams of youth that are incapable of realization, i thought of the better state preceding manhood that i had outgrown and then the contented days with agnes, in the dear old house, arose before me, like spectres of the dead, that might have some renewal in another world, but never more could be reanimated here.

sometimes, the speculation came into my thoughts, what might have happened, or what would have happened, if dora and i had never known each other but she was so incorporated with my existence, that it was the idlest of all fancies, and would soon rise out of my reach and sight, like gossamer floating in the air.

i always loved her. what i am describing, slumbered, and half awoke, and slept again, in the innermost recesses of my mind.

there was no evidence of it in me i know of no influence it had in anything i said or did. i bore the weight of all our little cares, and all my projects dora held the pens and we both felt that our shares were adjusted as the case required. she was truly fond of me, and proud of me and when agnes wrote a few earnest words in her letters to dora, of the pride and interest with which my old friends heard of my growing reputation, and read my book as if they heard me speaking its contents, dora read them out to me with tears of joy in her bright eyes, and said i was a dear old clever, famous boy.

the first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart. those words of mrs. strongs were constantly recurring to me, at this time were almost always present to my mind. i awoke with them, often, in the night i remember to have even read them, in dreams, inscribed upon the walls of houses. for i knew, now, that my own heart was undisciplined when it first loved dora and that if it had been disciplined, it never could have felt, when we were married, what it had felt in its secret experience.

there can be no disparity in marriage, like unsuitability of mind and purpose. those words i remembered too. i had endeavoured to adapt dora to myself, and found it impracticable. it remained for me to adapt myself to dora to share with her what i could, and be happy to bear on my own shoulders what i must, and be happy still.

this was the discipline to which i tried to bring my heart, when i began to think. it made my second year much happier than my first and, what was better still, made doras life all sunshine.

but, as that year wore on, dora was not strong. i had hoped that lighter hands than mine would help to mould her character, and that a babysmile upon her breast might change my childwife to a woman.

it was not to be. the spirit fluttered for a moment on the threshold of its little prison, and, unconscious of captivity, took wing.

when i can run about again, as i used to do, aunt, said dora, i shall make jip race. he is getting quite slow and lazy.

i suspect, my dear, said my aunt quietly working by her side, he has a worse disorder than that. age, dora.

do you think he is old said dora, astonished. oh, how strange it seems that jip should be old

its a complaint we are all liable to, little one, as we get on in life, said my aunt, cheerfully i dont feel more free from it than i used to be, i assure you.

but jip, said dora, looking at him with compassion, even little jip oh, poor fellow

i dare say hell last a long time yet, blossom, said my aunt, patting dora on the cheek, as she leaned out of her couch to look at jip, who responded by standing on his hind legs, and baulking himself in various asthmatic attempts to scramble up by the head and shoulders. he must have a piece of flannel in his house this winter, and i shouldnt wonder if he came out quite fresh again, with the flowers in the spring. bless the little dog exclaimed my aunt, if he had as many lives as a cat, and was on the point of losing em all, hed bark at me with his last breath, i believe

dora had helped him up on the sofa where he really was defying my aunt to such a furious extent, that he couldnt keep straight, but barked himself sideways. the more my aunt looked at him, the more he reproached her for she had lately taken to spectacles, and for some inscrutable reason he considered the glasses personal.

dora made him lie down by her, with a good deal of persuasion and when he was quiet, drew one of his long ears through and through her hand, repeating thoughtfully, even little jip oh, poor fellow

his lungs are good enough, said my aunt, gaily, and his dislikes are not at all feeble. he has a good many years before him, no doubt. but if you want a dog to race with, little blossom, he has lived too well for that, and ill give you one.

thank you, aunt, said dora, faintly. but dont, please

no said my aunt, taking off her spectacles.

i couldnt have any other dog but jip, said dora. it would be so unkind to jip besides, i couldnt be such friends with any other dog but jip because he wouldnt have known me before i was married, and wouldnt have barked at doady when he first came to our house. i couldnt care for any other dog but jip, i am afraid, aunt.

to be sure said my aunt, patting her cheek again. you are right.

you are not offended, said dora. are you

why, what a sensitive pet it is cried my aunt, bending over her affectionately. to think that i could be offended

no, no, i didnt really think so, returned dora but i am a little tired, and it made me silly for a moment  i am always a silly little thing, you know, but it made me more silly  to talk about jip. he has known me in all that has happened to me, havent you, jip and i couldnt bear to slight him, because he was a little altered  could i, jip

jip nestled closer to his mistress, and lazily licked her hand.

you are not so old, jip, are you, that youll leave your mistress yet said dora. we may keep one another company a little longer

my pretty dora when she came down to dinner on the ensuing sunday, and was so glad to see old traddles who always dined with us on sunday, we thought she would be running about as she used to do, in a few days. but they said, wait a few days more and then, wait a few days more and still she neither ran nor walked. she looked very pretty, and was very merry but the little feet that used to be so nimble when they danced round jip, were dull and motionless.

i began to carry her downstairs every morning, and upstairs every night. she would clasp me round the neck and laugh, the while, as if i did it for a wager. jip would bark and caper round us, and go on before, and look back on the landing, breathing short, to see that we were coming. my aunt, the best and most cheerful of nurses, would trudge after us, a moving mass of shawls and pillows.

mr. dick would not have relinquished his post of candlebearer to anyone alive. traddles would be often at the bottom of the staircase, looking on, and taking charge of sportive messages from dora to the dearest girl in the world. we made quite a gay procession of it, and my childwife was the gayest there.

but, sometimes, when i took her up, and felt that she was lighter in my arms, a dead blank feeling came upon me, as if i were approaching to some frozen region yet unseen, that numbed my life.

i avoided the recognition of this feeling by any name, or by any communing with myself until one night, when it was very strong upon me, and my aunt had left her with a parting cry of good night, little blossom, i sat down at my desk alone, and cried to think, oh what a fatal name it was, and how the blossom withered in its bloom upon the tree



chapter 

i am involved in mystery

i received one morning by the post, the following letter, dated canterbury, and addressed to me at doctors commons which i read with some surprise


my dear sir, circumstances beyond my individual control have, for a considerable lapse of time, effected a severance of that intimacy which, in the limited opportunities conceded to me in the midst of my professional duties, of contemplating the scenes and events of the past, tinged by the prismatic hues of memory, has ever afforded me, as it ever must continue to afford, gratifying emotions of no common description. this fact, my dear sir, combined with the distinguished elevation to which your talents have raised you, deters me from presuming to aspire to the liberty of addressing the companion of my youth, by the familiar appellation of copperfield

it is sufficient to know that the name to which i do myself the honour to refer, will ever be treasured among the muniments of our house i allude to the archives connected with our former lodgers, preserved by mrs. micawber, with sentiments of personal esteem amounting to affection.

it is not for one, situated, through his original errors and a fortuitous combination of unpropitious events, as is the foundered bark if he may be allowed to assume so maritime a denomination, who now takes up the pen to address you  it is not, i repeat, for one so circumstanced, to adopt the language of compliment, or of congratulation. that he leaves to abler and to purer hands.

if your more important avocations should admit of your ever tracing these imperfect characters thus far  which may be, or may not be, as circumstances arise  you will naturally inquire by what object am i influenced, then, in inditing the present missive

allow me to say that i fully defer to the reasonable character of that inquiry, and proceed to develop it premising that it is not an object of a pecuniary nature.

without more directly referring to any latent ability that may possibly exist on my part, of wielding the thunderbolt, or directing the devouring and avenging flame in any quarter, i may be permitted to observe, in passing, that my brightest visions are for ever dispelled  that my peace is shattered and my power of enjoyment destroyed  that my heart is no longer in the right place  and that i no more walk erect before my fellow man. the canker is in the flower. the cup is bitter to the brim. the worm is at his work, and will soon dispose of his victim. the sooner the better. but i will not digress.

placed in a mental position of peculiar painfulness, beyond the assuaging reach even of mrs. micawbers influence, though exercised in the tripartite character of woman, wife, and mother, it is my intention to fly from myself for a short period, and devote a respite of eightandforty hours to revisiting some metropolitan scenes of past enjoyment. among other havens of domestic tranquillity and peace of mind, my feet will naturally tend towards the kings bench prison. in stating that i shall be d. v. on the outside of the south wall of that place of incarceration on civil process, the day after tomorrow, at seven in the evening, precisely, my object in this epistolary communication is accomplished.



i do not feel warranted in soliciting my former friend mr.

copperfield, or my former friend mr. thomas traddles of the inner temple, if that gentleman is still existent and forthcoming, to condescend to meet me, and renew so far as may be our past relations of the olden time. i confine myself to throwing out the observation, that, at the hour and place i have indicated, may be found such ruined vestiges as yet remain, of a fallen tower, wilkins micawber.

p.s. it may be advisable to superadd to the above, the statement that mrs. micawber is not in confidential possession of my intentions.



i read the letter over several times. making due allowance for mr.

micawbers lofty style of composition, and for the extraordinary relish with which he sat down and wrote long letters on all possible and impossible occasions, i still believed that something important lay hidden at the bottom of this roundabout communication. i put it down, to think about it and took it up again, to read it once more and was still pursuing it, when traddles found me in the height of my perplexity.

my dear fellow, said i, i never was better pleased to see you.

you come to give me the benefit of your sober judgement at a most opportune time. i have received a very singular letter, traddles, from mr. micawber.

no cried traddles. you dont say so and i have received one from mrs. micawber

with that, traddles, who was flushed with walking, and whose hair, under the combined effects of exercise and excitement, stood on end as if he saw a cheerful ghost, produced his letter and made an exchange with me. i watched him into the heart of mr. micawbers letter, and returned the elevation of eyebrows with which he said wielding the thunderbolt, or directing the devouring and avenging flame bless me, copperfield and then entered on the perusal of mrs. micawbers epistle.

it ran thus


my best regards to mr. thomas traddles, and if he should still remember one who formerly had the happiness of being well acquainted with him, may i beg a few moments of his leisure time

i assure mr. t. t. that i would not intrude upon his kindness, were i in any other position than on the confines of distraction.

though harrowing to myself to mention, the alienation of mr.

micawber formerly so domesticated from his wife and family, is the cause of my addressing my unhappy appeal to mr. traddles, and soliciting his best indulgence. mr. t. can form no adequate idea of the change in mr. micawbers conduct, of his wildness, of his violence. it has gradually augmented, until it assumes the appearance of aberration of intellect. scarcely a day passes, i assure mr. traddles, on which some paroxysm does not take place.

mr. t. will not require me to depict my feelings, when i inform him that i have become accustomed to hear mr. micawber assert that he has sold himself to the d. mystery and secrecy have long been his principal characteristic, have long replaced unlimited confidence.

the slightest provocation, even being asked if there is anything he would prefer for dinner, causes him to express a wish for a separation. last night, on being childishly solicited for twopence, to buy lemonstunners  a local sweetmeat  he presented an oysterknife at the twins i entreat mr. traddles to bear with me in entering into these details. without them, mr. t. would indeed find it difficult to form the faintest conception of my heartrending situation.

may i now venture to confide to mr. t. the purport of my letter

will he now allow me to throw myself on his friendly consideration

oh yes, for i know his heart the quick eye of affection is not easily blinded, when of the female sex. mr. micawber is going to london. though he studiously concealed his hand, this morning before breakfast, in writing the directioncard which he attached to the little brown valise of happier days, the eagleglance of matrimonial anxiety detected, d, o, n, distinctly traced. the westend destination of the coach, is the golden cross. dare i fervently implore mr. t. to see my misguided husband, and to reason with him dare i ask mr. t. to endeavour to step in between mr. micawber and his agonized family

oh no, for that would be too much if mr. copperfield should yet remember one unknown to fame, will mr. t. take charge of my unalterable regards and similar entreaties in any case, he will have the benevolence to consider this communication strictly private, and on no account whatever to be alluded to, however distantly, in the presence of mr. micawber.

if mr. t. should ever reply to it which i cannot but feel to be most improbable, a letter addressed to m. e., post office, canterbury, will be fraught with less painful consequences than any addressed immediately to one, who subscribes herself, in extreme distress, mr. thomas traddless respectful friend and suppliant, emma micawber.


what do you think of that letter said traddles, casting his eyes upon me, when i had read it twice.

what do you think of the other said i. for he was still reading it with knitted brows.

i think that the two together, copperfield, replied traddles, mean more than mr. and mrs. micawber usually mean in their correspondence  but i dont know what. they are both written in good faith, i have no doubt, and without any collusion. poor thing he was now alluding to mrs. micawbers letter, and we were standing side by side comparing the two it will be a charity to write to her, at all events, and tell her that we will not fail to see mr. micawber.

i acceded to this the more readily, because i now reproached myself with having treated her former letter rather lightly. it had set me thinking a good deal at the time, as i have mentioned in its place but my absorption in my own affairs, my experience of the family, and my hearing nothing more, had gradually ended in my dismissing the subject. i had often thought of the micawbers, but chiefly to wonder what pecuniary liabilities they were establishing in canterbury, and to recall how shy mr. micawber was of me when he became clerk to uriah heep.

however, i now wrote a comforting letter to mrs. micawber, in our joint names, and we both signed it. as we walked into town to post it, traddles and i held a long conference, and launched into a number of speculations, which i need not repeat. we took my aunt into our counsels in the afternoon but our only decided conclusion was, that we would be very punctual in keeping mr. micawbers appointment.

although we appeared at the stipulated place a quarter of an hour before the time, we found mr. micawber already there. he was standing with his arms folded, over against the wall, looking at the spikes on the top, with a sentimental expression, as if they were the interlacing boughs of trees that had shaded him in his youth.

when we accosted him, his manner was something more confused, and something less genteel, than of yore. he had relinquished his legal suit of black for the purposes of this excursion, and wore the old surtout and tights, but not quite with the old air. he gradually picked up more and more of it as we conversed with him but, his very eyeglass seemed to hang less easily, and his shirtcollar, though still of the old formidable dimensions, rather drooped.

gentlemen said mr. micawber, after the first salutations, you are friends in need, and friends indeed. allow me to offer my inquiries with reference to the physical welfare of mrs.

copperfield in esse, and mrs. traddles in posse,  presuming, that is to say, that my friend mr. traddles is not yet united to the object of his affections, for weal and for woe.

we acknowledged his politeness, and made suitable replies. he then directed our attention to the wall, and was beginning, i assure you, gentlemen, when i ventured to object to that ceremonious form of address, and to beg that he would speak to us in the old way.

my dear copperfield, he returned, pressing my hand, your cordiality overpowers me. this reception of a shattered fragment of the temple once called man  if i may be permitted so to express myself  bespeaks a heart that is an honour to our common nature.

i was about to observe that i again behold the serene spot where some of the happiest hours of my existence fleeted by.

made so, i am sure, by mrs. micawber, said i. i hope she is well

thank you, returned mr. micawber, whose face clouded at this reference, she is but soso. and this, said mr. micawber, nodding his head sorrowfully, is the bench where, for the first time in many revolving years, the overwhelming pressure of pecuniary liabilities was not proclaimed, from day to day, by importune voices declining to vacate the passage where there was no knocker on the door for any creditor to appeal to where personal service of process was not required, and detainees were merely lodged at the gate gentlemen, said mr. micawber, when the shadow of that ironwork on the summit of the brick structure has been reflected on the gravel of the parade, i have seen my children thread the mazes of the intricate pattern, avoiding the dark marks.

i have been familiar with every stone in the place. if i betray weakness, you will know how to excuse me.

we have all got on in life since then, mr. micawber, said i.

mr. copperfield, returned mr. micawber, bitterly, when i was an inmate of that retreat i could look my fellowman in the face, and punch his head if he offended me. my fellowman and myself are no longer on those glorious terms

turning from the building in a downcast manner, mr. micawber accepted my proffered arm on one side, and the proffered arm of traddles on the other, and walked away between us.

there are some landmarks, observed mr. micawber, looking fondly back over his shoulder, on the road to the tomb, which, but for the impiety of the aspiration, a man would wish never to have passed. such is the bench in my chequered career.

oh, you are in low spirits, mr. micawber, said traddles.

i am, sir, interposed mr. micawber.

i hope, said traddles, it is not because you have conceived a dislike to the law  for i am a lawyer myself, you know.

mr. micawber answered not a word.

how is our friend heep, mr. micawber said i, after a silence.

my dear copperfield, returned mr. micawber, bursting into a state of much excitement, and turning pale, if you ask after my employer as your friend, i am sorry for it if you ask after him as my friend, i sardonically smile at it. in whatever capacity you ask after my employer, i beg, without offence to you, to limit my reply to this  that whatever his state of health may be, his appearance is foxy not to say diabolical. you will allow me, as a private individual, to decline pursuing a subject which has lashed me to the utmost verge of desperation in my professional capacity.

i expressed my regret for having innocently touched upon a theme that roused him so much. may i ask, said i, without any hazard of repeating the mistake, how my old friends mr. and miss wickfield are

miss wickfield, said mr. micawber, now turning red, is, as she always is, a pattern, and a bright example. my dear copperfield, she is the only starry spot in a miserable existence. my respect for that young lady, my admiration of her character, my devotion to her for her love and truth, and goodness  take me, said mr.

micawber, down a turning, for, upon my soul, in my present state of mind i am not equal to this

we wheeled him off into a narrow street, where he took out his pockethandkerchief, and stood with his back to a wall. if i looked as gravely at him as traddles did, he must have found our company by no means inspiriting.

it is my fate, said mr. micawber, unfeignedly sobbing, but doing even that, with a shadow of the old expression of doing something genteel it is my fate, gentlemen, that the finer feelings of our nature have become reproaches to me. my homage to miss wickfield, is a flight of arrows in my bosom. you had better leave me, if you please, to walk the earth as a vagabond. the worm will settle my business in doublequick time.

without attending to this invocation, we stood by, until he put up his pockethandkerchief, pulled up his shirtcollar, and, to delude any person in the neighbourhood who might have been observing him, hummed a tune with his hat very much on one side. i then mentioned  not knowing what might be lost if we lost sight of him yet  that it would give me great pleasure to introduce him to my aunt, if he would ride out to highgate, where a bed was at his service.

you shall make us a glass of your own punch, mr. micawber, said i, and forget whatever you have on your mind, in pleasanter reminiscences.

or, if confiding anything to friends will be more likely to relieve you, you shall impart it to us, mr. micawber, said traddles, prudently.

gentlemen, returned mr. micawber, do with me as you will i am a straw upon the surface of the deep, and am tossed in all directions by the elephants  i beg your pardon i should have said the elements.

we walked on, arminarm, again found the coach in the act of starting and arrived at highgate without encountering any difficulties by the way. i was very uneasy and very uncertain in my mind what to say or do for the best  so was traddles, evidently. mr. micawber was for the most part plunged into deep gloom. he occasionally made an attempt to smarten himself, and hum the fagend of a tune but his relapses into profound melancholy were only made the more impressive by the mockery of a hat exceedingly on one side, and a shirtcollar pulled up to his eyes.

we went to my aunts house rather than to mine, because of doras not being well. my aunt presented herself on being sent for, and welcomed mr. micawber with gracious cordiality. mr. micawber kissed her hand, retired to the window, and pulling out his pockethandkerchief, had a mental wrestle with himself.

mr. dick was at home. he was by nature so exceedingly compassionate of anyone who seemed to be ill at ease, and was so quick to find any such person out, that he shook hands with mr.

micawber, at least halfadozen times in five minutes. to mr.

micawber, in his trouble, this warmth, on the part of a stranger, was so extremely touching, that he could only say, on the occasion of each successive shake, my dear sir, you overpower me which gratified mr. dick so much, that he went at it again with greater vigour than before.

the friendliness of this gentleman, said mr. micawber to my aunt, if you will allow me, maam, to cull a figure of speech from the vocabulary of our coarser national sports  floors me. to a man who is struggling with a complicated burden of perplexity and disquiet, such a reception is trying, i assure you.

my friend mr. dick, replied my aunt proudly, is not a common man.

that i am convinced of, said mr. micawber. my dear sir for mr. dick was shaking hands with him again i am deeply sensible of your cordiality

how do you find yourself said mr. dick, with an anxious look.

indifferent, my dear sir, returned mr. micawber, sighing.

you must keep up your spirits, said mr. dick, and make yourself as comfortable as possible.

mr. micawber was quite overcome by these friendly words, and by finding mr. dicks hand again within his own. it has been my lot, he observed, to meet, in the diversified panorama of human existence, with an occasional oasis, but never with one so green, so gushing, as the present

at another time i should have been amused by this but i felt that we were all constrained and uneasy, and i watched mr. micawber so anxiously, in his vacillations between an evident disposition to reveal something, and a counterdisposition to reveal nothing, that i was in a perfect fever. traddles, sitting on the edge of his chair, with his eyes wide open, and his hair more emphatically erect than ever, stared by turns at the ground and at mr. micawber, without so much as attempting to put in a word. my aunt, though i saw that her shrewdest observation was concentrated on her new guest, had more useful possession of her wits than either of us for she held him in conversation, and made it necessary for him to talk, whether he liked it or not.

you are a very old friend of my nephews, mr. micawber, said my aunt. i wish i had had the pleasure of seeing you before.

madam, returned mr. micawber, i wish i had had the honour of knowing you at an earlier period. i was not always the wreck you at present behold.

i hope mrs. micawber and your family are well, sir, said my aunt.

mr. micawber inclined his head. they are as well, maam, he desperately observed after a pause, as aliens and outcasts can ever hope to be.

lord bless you, sir exclaimed my aunt, in her abrupt way. what are you talking about

the subsistence of my family, maam, returned mr. micawber, trembles in the balance. my employer 

here mr. micawber provokingly left off and began to peel the lemons that had been under my directions set before him, together with all the other appliances he used in making punch.

your employer, you know, said mr. dick, jogging his arm as a gentle reminder.

my good sir, returned mr. micawber, you recall me, i am obliged to you. they shook hands again. my employer, maam  mr. heep  once did me the favour to observe to me, that if i were not in the receipt of the stipendiary emoluments appertaining to my engagement with him, i should probably be a mountebank about the country, swallowing a swordblade, and eating the devouring element. for anything that i can perceive to the contrary, it is still probable that my children may be reduced to seek a livelihood by personal contortion, while mrs. micawber abets their unnatural feats by playing the barrelorgan.

mr. micawber, with a random but expressive flourish of his knife, signified that these performances might be expected to take place after he was no more then resumed his peeling with a desperate air.

my aunt leaned her elbow on the little round table that she usually kept beside her, and eyed him attentively. notwithstanding the aversion with which i regarded the idea of entrapping him into any disclosure he was not prepared to make voluntarily, i should have taken him up at this point, but for the strange proceedings in which i saw him engaged whereof his putting the lemonpeel into the kettle, the sugar into the snuffertray, the spirit into the empty jug, and confidently attempting to pour boiling water out of a candlestick, were among the most remarkable. i saw that a crisis was at hand, and it came. he clattered all his means and implements together, rose from his chair, pulled out his pockethandkerchief, and burst into tears.

my dear copperfield, said mr. micawber, behind his handkerchief, this is an occupation, of all others, requiring an untroubled mind, and selfrespect. i cannot perform it. it is out of the question.

mr. micawber, said i, what is the matter pray speak out. you are among friends.

among friends, sir repeated mr. micawber and all he had reserved came breaking out of him. good heavens, it is principally because i am among friends that my state of mind is what it is. what is the matter, gentlemen what is not the matter villainy is the matter baseness is the matter deception, fraud, conspiracy, are the matter and the name of the whole atrocious mass is  heep

my aunt clapped her hands, and we all started up as if we were possessed.

the struggle is over said mr. micawber violently gesticulating with his pockethandkerchief, and fairly striking out from time to time with both arms, as if he were swimming under superhuman difficulties. i will lead this life no longer. i am a wretched being, cut off from everything that makes life tolerable. i have been under a taboo in that infernal scoundrels service. give me back my wife, give me back my family, substitute micawber for the petty wretch who walks about in the boots at present on my feet, and call upon me to swallow a sword tomorrow, and ill do it. with an appetite

i never saw a man so hot in my life. i tried to calm him, that we might come to something rational but he got hotter and hotter, and wouldnt hear a word.

ill put my hand in no mans hand, said mr. micawber, gasping, puffing, and sobbing, to that degree that he was like a man fighting with cold water, until i have  blown to fragments  the  a  detestable  serpent  heep ill partake of no ones hospitality, until i have  a  moved mount vesuvius  to eruption  on  a  the abandoned rascal  heep refreshment  a  underneath this roof  particularly punch  would  a  choke me  unless  i had  previously  choked the eyes  out of the head  a  of  interminable cheat, and liar  heep i  a ill know nobody  and  a  say nothing  and  a  live nowhere  until i have crushed  to  a  undiscoverable atoms  the  transcendent and immortal hypocrite and perjurer  heep

i really had some fear of mr. micawbers dying on the spot. the manner in which he struggled through these inarticulate sentences, and, whenever he found himself getting near the name of heep, fought his way on to it, dashed at it in a fainting state, and brought it out with a vehemence little less than marvellous, was frightful but now, when he sank into a chair, steaming, and looked at us, with every possible colour in his face that had no business there, and an endless procession of lumps following one another in hot haste up his throat, whence they seemed to shoot into his forehead, he had the appearance of being in the last extremity. i would have gone to his assistance, but he waved me off, and wouldnt hear a word.

no, copperfield  no communication  a  until  miss wickfield  a  redress from wrongs inflicted by consummate scoundrel  heep i am quite convinced he could not have uttered three words, but for the amazing energy with which this word inspired him when he felt it coming. inviolable secret  a  from the whole world  a  no exceptions  this day week  a  at breakfasttime  a  everybody present  including aunt  a  and extremely friendly gentleman  to be at the hotel at canterbury  a  where  mrs.

micawber and myself  auld lang syne in chorus  and  a  will expose intolerable ruffian  heep no more to say  a  or listen to persuasion  go immediately  not capable  a  bear society  upon the track of devoted and doomed traitor  heep

with this last repetition of the magic word that had kept him going at all, and in which he surpassed all his previous efforts, mr.

micawber rushed out of the house leaving us in a state of excitement, hope, and wonder, that reduced us to a condition little better than his own. but even then his passion for writing letters was too strong to be resisted for while we were yet in the height of our excitement, hope, and wonder, the following pastoral note was brought to me from a neighbouring tavern, at which he had called to write it 


most secret and confidential.

my dear sir, i beg to be allowed to convey, through you, my apologies to your excellent aunt for my late excitement. an explosion of a smouldering volcano long suppressed, was the result of an internal contest more easily conceived than described.

i trust i rendered tolerably intelligible my appointment for the morning of this day week, at the house of public entertainment at canterbury, where mrs. micawber and myself had once the honour of uniting our voices to yours, in the wellknown strain of the immortal exciseman nurtured beyond the tweed.

the duty done, and act of reparation performed, which can alone enable me to contemplate my fellow mortal, i shall be known no more. i shall simply require to be deposited in that place of universal resort, where each in his narrow cell for ever laid, the rude forefathers of the hamlet sleep,  with the plain inscription, wilkins micawber.



chapter 

mr. peggottys dream comes true

by this time, some months had passed since our interview on the bank of the river with martha. i had never seen her since, but she had communicated with mr. peggotty on several occasions. nothing had come of her zealous intervention nor could i infer, from what he told me, that any clue had been obtained, for a moment, to emilys fate. i confess that i began to despair of her recovery, and gradually to sink deeper and deeper into the belief that she was dead.

his conviction remained unchanged. so far as i know  and i believe his honest heart was transparent to me  he never wavered again, in his solemn certainty of finding her. his patience never tired. and, although i trembled for the agony it might one day be to him to have his strong assurance shivered at a blow, there was something so religious in it, so affectingly expressive of its anchor being in the purest depths of his fine nature, that the respect and honour in which i held him were exalted every day.

his was not a lazy trustfulness that hoped, and did no more. he had been a man of sturdy action all his life, and he knew that in all things wherein he wanted help he must do his own part faithfully, and help himself. i have known him set out in the night, on a misgiving that the light might not be, by some accident, in the window of the old boat, and walk to yarmouth. i have known him, on reading something in the newspaper that might apply to her, take up his stick, and go forth on a journey of three or fourscore miles. he made his way by sea to naples, and back, after hearing the narrative to which miss dartle had assisted me. all his journeys were ruggedly performed for he was always steadfast in a purpose of saving money for emilys sake, when she should be found. in all this long pursuit, i never heard him repine i never heard him say he was fatigued, or out of heart.

dora had often seen him since our marriage, and was quite fond of him. i fancy his figure before me now, standing near her sofa, with his rough cap in his hand, and the blue eyes of my childwife raised, with a timid wonder, to his face. sometimes of an evening, about twilight, when he came to talk with me, i would induce him to smoke his pipe in the garden, as we slowly paced to and fro together and then, the picture of his deserted home, and the comfortable air it used to have in my childish eyes of an evening when the fire was burning, and the wind moaning round it, came most vividly into my mind.

one evening, at this hour, he told me that he had found martha waiting near his lodging on the preceding night when he came out, and that she had asked him not to leave london on any account, until he should have seen her again.

did she tell you why i inquired.

i asked her, masr davy, he replied, but it is but few words as she ever says, and she ony got my promise and so went away.

did she say when you might expect to see her again i demanded.

no, masr davy, he returned, drawing his hand thoughtfully down his face. i asked that too but it was more she said than she could tell.

as i had long forborne to encourage him with hopes that hung on threads, i made no other comment on this information than that i supposed he would see her soon. such speculations as it engendered within me i kept to myself, and those were faint enough.

i was walking alone in the garden, one evening, about a fortnight afterwards. i remember that evening well. it was the second in mr. micawbers week of suspense. there had been rain all day, and there was a damp feeling in the air. the leaves were thick upon the trees, and heavy with wet but the rain had ceased, though the sky was still dark and the hopeful birds were singing cheerfully.

as i walked to and fro in the garden, and the twilight began to close around me, their little voices were hushed and that peculiar silence which belongs to such an evening in the country when the lightest trees are quite still, save for the occasional droppings from their boughs, prevailed.

there was a little green perspective of trelliswork and ivy at the side of our cottage, through which i could see, from the garden where i was walking, into the road before the house. i happened to turn my eyes towards this place, as i was thinking of many things and i saw a figure beyond, dressed in a plain cloak. it was bending eagerly towards me, and beckoning.

martha said i, going to it.

can you come with me she inquired, in an agitated whisper. i have been to him, and he is not at home. i wrote down where he was to come, and left it on his table with my own hand. they said he would not be out long. i have tidings for him. can you come directly

my answer was, to pass out at the gate immediately. she made a hasty gesture with her hand, as if to entreat my patience and my silence, and turned towards london, whence, as her dress betokened, she had come expeditiously on foot.

i asked her if that were not our destination on her motioning yes, with the same hasty gesture as before, i stopped an empty coach that was coming by, and we got into it. when i asked her where the coachman was to drive, she answered, anywhere near golden square and quick  then shrunk into a corner, with one trembling hand before her face, and the other making the former gesture, as if she could not bear a voice.

now much disturbed, and dazzled with conflicting gleams of hope and dread, i looked at her for some explanation. but seeing how strongly she desired to remain quiet, and feeling that it was my own natural inclination too, at such a time, i did not attempt to break the silence. we proceeded without a word being spoken.

sometimes she glanced out of the window, as though she thought we were going slowly, though indeed we were going fast but otherwise remained exactly as at first.

we alighted at one of the entrances to the square she had mentioned, where i directed the coach to wait, not knowing but that we might have some occasion for it. she laid her hand on my arm, and hurried me on to one of the sombre streets, of which there are several in that part, where the houses were once fair dwellings in the occupation of single families, but have, and had, long degenerated into poor lodgings let off in rooms. entering at the open door of one of these, and releasing my arm, she beckoned me to follow her up the common staircase, which was like a tributary channel to the street.

the house swarmed with inmates. as we went up, doors of rooms were opened and peoples heads put out and we passed other people on the stairs, who were coming down. in glancing up from the outside, before we entered, i had seen women and children lolling at the windows over flowerpots and we seemed to have attracted their curiosity, for these were principally the observers who looked out of their doors. it was a broad panelled staircase, with massive balustrades of some dark wood cornices above the doors, ornamented with carved fruit and flowers and broad seats in the windows. but all these tokens of past grandeur were miserably decayed and dirty rot, damp, and age, had weakened the flooring, which in many places was unsound and even unsafe. some attempts had been made, i noticed, to infuse new blood into this dwindling frame, by repairing the costly old woodwork here and there with common deal but it was like the marriage of a reduced old noble to a plebeian pauper, and each party to the illassorted union shrunk away from the other. several of the back windows on the staircase had been darkened or wholly blocked up. in those that remained, there was scarcely any glass and, through the crumbling frames by which the bad air seemed always to come in, and never to go out, i saw, through other glassless windows, into other houses in a similar condition, and looked giddily down into a wretched yard, which was the common dustheap of the mansion.

we proceeded to the topstorey of the house. two or three times, by the way, i thought i observed in the indistinct light the skirts of a female figure going up before us. as we turned to ascend the last flight of stairs between us and the roof, we caught a full view of this figure pausing for a moment, at a door. then it turned the handle, and went in.

whats this said martha, in a whisper. she has gone into my room. i dont know her

i knew her. i had recognized her with amazement, for miss dartle.

i said something to the effect that it was a lady whom i had seen before, in a few words, to my conductress and had scarcely done so, when we heard her voice in the room, though not, from where we stood, what she was saying. martha, with an astonished look, repeated her former action, and softly led me up the stairs and then, by a little backdoor which seemed to have no lock, and which she pushed open with a touch, into a small empty garret with a low sloping roof, little better than a cupboard. between this, and the room she had called hers, there was a small door of communication, standing partly open. here we stopped, breathless with our ascent, and she placed her hand lightly on my lips. i could only see, of the room beyond, that it was pretty large that there was a bed in it and that there were some common pictures of ships upon the walls. i could not see miss dartle, or the person whom we had heard her address. certainly, my companion could not, for my position was the best.

a dead silence prevailed for some moments. martha kept one hand on my lips, and raised the other in a listening attitude.

it matters little to me her not being at home, said rosa dartle haughtily, i know nothing of her. it is you i come to see.

me replied a soft voice.

at the sound of it, a thrill went through my frame. for it was emilys yes, returned miss dartle, i have come to look at you. what

you are not ashamed of the face that has done so much

the resolute and unrelenting hatred of her tone, its cold stern sharpness, and its mastered rage, presented her before me, as if i had seen her standing in the light. i saw the flashing black eyes, and the passionwasted figure and i saw the scar, with its white track cutting through her lips, quivering and throbbing as she spoke.

i have come to see, she said, james steerforths fancy the girl who ran away with him, and is the towntalk of the commonest people of her native place the bold, flaunting, practised companion of persons like james steerforth. i want to know what such a thing is like.

there was a rustle, as if the unhappy girl, on whom she heaped these taunts, ran towards the door, and the speaker swiftly interposed herself before it. it was succeeded by a moments pause.

when miss dartle spoke again, it was through her set teeth, and with a stamp upon the ground.

stay there she said, or ill proclaim you to the house, and the whole street if you try to evade me, ill stop you, if its by the hair, and raise the very stones against you

a frightened murmur was the only reply that reached my ears. a silence succeeded. i did not know what to do. much as i desired to put an end to the interview, i felt that i had no right to present myself that it was for mr. peggotty alone to see her and recover her. would he never come i thought impatiently.

so said rosa dartle, with a contemptuous laugh, i see her at last why, he was a poor creature to be taken by that delicate mockmodesty, and that hanging head

oh, for heavens sake, spare me exclaimed emily. whoever you are, you know my pitiable story, and for heavens sake spare me, if you would be spared yourself

if i would be spared returned the other fiercely what is there in common between us, do you think

nothing but our sex, said emily, with a burst of tears.

and that, said rosa dartle, is so strong a claim, preferred by one so infamous, that if i had any feeling in my breast but scorn and abhorrence of you, it would freeze it up. our sex you are an honour to our sex

i have deserved this, said emily, but its dreadful dear, dear lady, think what i have suffered, and how i am fallen oh, martha, come back oh, home, home

miss dartle placed herself in a chair, within view of the door, and looked downward, as if emily were crouching on the floor before her. being now between me and the light, i could see her curled lip, and her cruel eyes intently fixed on one place, with a greedy triumph.

listen to what i say she said and reserve your false arts for your dupes. do you hope to move me by your tears no more than you could charm me by your smiles, you purchased slave.

oh, have some mercy on me cried emily. show me some compassion, or i shall die mad

it would be no great penance, said rosa dartle, for your crimes.

do you know what you have done do you ever think of the home you have laid waste

oh, is there ever night or day, when i dont think of it cried emily and now i could just see her, on her knees, with her head thrown back, her pale face looking upward, her hands wildly clasped and held out, and her hair streaming about her. has there ever been a single minute, waking or sleeping, when it hasnt been before me, just as it used to be in the lost days when i turned my back upon it for ever and for ever oh, home, home oh dear, dear uncle, if you ever could have known the agony your love would cause me when i fell away from good, you never would have shown it to me so constant, much as you felt it but would have been angry to me, at least once in my life, that i might have had some comfort i have none, none, no comfort upon earth, for all of them were always fond of me she dropped on her face, before the imperious figure in the chair, with an imploring effort to clasp the skirt of her dress.

rosa dartle sat looking down upon her, as inflexible as a figure of brass. her lips were tightly compressed, as if she knew that she must keep a strong constraint upon herself  i write what i sincerely believe  or she would be tempted to strike the beautiful form with her foot. i saw her, distinctly, and the whole power of her face and character seemed forced into that expression.  would he never come the miserable vanity of these earthworms she said, when she had so far controlled the angry heavings of her breast, that she could trust herself to speak. your home do you imagine that i bestow a thought on it, or suppose you could do any harm to that low place, which money would not pay for, and handsomely your home

you were a part of the trade of your home, and were bought and sold like any other vendible thing your people dealt in.

oh, not that cried emily. say anything of me but dont visit my disgrace and shame, more than i have done, on folks who are as honourable as you have some respect for them, as you are a lady, if you have no mercy for me.

i speak, she said, not deigning to take any heed of this appeal, and drawing away her dress from the contamination of emilys touch, i speak of his home  where i live. here, she said, stretching out her hand with her contemptuous laugh, and looking down upon the prostrate girl, is a worthy cause of division between ladymother and gentlemanson of grief in a house where she wouldnt have been admitted as a kitchengirl of anger, and repining, and reproach.

this piece of pollution, picked up from the waterside, to be made much of for an hour, and then tossed back to her original place

no no cried emily, clasping her hands together. when he first came into my way  that the day had never dawned upon me, and he had met me being carried to my grave  i had been brought up as virtuous as you or any lady, and was going to be the wife of as good a man as you or any lady in the world can ever marry. if you live in his home and know him, you know, perhaps, what his power with a weak, vain girl might be. i dont defend myself, but i know well, and he knows well, or he will know when he comes to die, and his mind is troubled with it, that he used all his power to deceive me, and that i believed him, trusted him, and loved him

rosa dartle sprang up from her seat recoiled and in recoiling struck at her, with a face of such malignity, so darkened and disfigured by passion, that i had almost thrown myself between them. the blow, which had no aim, fell upon the air. as she now stood panting, looking at her with the utmost detestation that she was capable of expressing, and trembling from head to foot with rage and scorn, i thought i had never seen such a sight, and never could see such another.

you love him you she cried, with her clenched hand, quivering as if it only wanted a weapon to stab the object of her wrath.

emily had shrunk out of my view. there was no reply.

and tell that to me, she added, with your shameful lips why dont they whip these creatures if i could order it to be done, i would have this girl whipped to death.

and so she would, i have no doubt. i would not have trusted her with the rack itself, while that furious look lasted.

she slowly, very slowly, broke into a laugh, and pointed at emily with her hand, as if she were a sight of shame for gods and men.

she love she said. that carrion and he ever cared for her, shed tell me. ha, ha the liars that these traders are

her mockery was worse than her undisguised rage. of the two, i would have much preferred to be the object of the latter. but, when she suffered it to break loose, it was only for a moment. she had chained it up again, and however it might tear her within, she subdued it to herself.

i came here, you pure fountain of love, she said, to see  as i began by telling you  what such a thing as you was like. i was curious. i am satisfied. also to tell you, that you had best seek that home of yours, with all speed, and hide your head among those excellent people who are expecting you, and whom your money will console. when its all gone, you can believe, and trust, and love again, you know i thought you a broken toy that had lasted its time a worthless spangle that was tarnished, and thrown away.

but, finding you true gold, a very lady, and an illused innocent, with a fresh heart full of love and trustfulness  which you look like, and is quite consistent with your story  i have something more to say. attend to it for what i say ill do. do you hear me, you fairy spirit what i say, i mean to do

her rage got the better of her again, for a moment but it passed over her face like a spasm, and left her smiling.

hide yourself, she pursued, if not at home, somewhere. let it be somewhere beyond reach in some obscure life  or, better still, in some obscure death. i wonder, if your loving heart will not break, you have found no way of helping it to be still i have heard of such means sometimes. i believe they may be easily found.

a low crying, on the part of emily, interrupted her here. she stopped, and listened to it as if it were music.

i am of a strange nature, perhaps, rosa dartle went on but i cant breathe freely in the air you breathe. i find it sickly.

therefore, i will have it cleared i will have it purified of you.

if you live here tomorrow, ill have your story and your character proclaimed on the common stair. there are decent women in the house, i am told and it is a pity such a light as you should be among them, and concealed. if, leaving here, you seek any refuge in this town in any character but your true one which you are welcome to bear, without molestation from me, the same service shall be done you, if i hear of your retreat. being assisted by a gentleman who not long ago aspired to the favour of your hand, i am sanguine as to that.

would he never, never come how long was i to bear this how long could i bear it oh me, oh me exclaimed the wretched emily, in a tone that might have touched the hardest heart, i should have thought but there was no relenting in rosa dartles smile. what, what, shall i do

do returned the other. live happy in your own reflections

consecrate your existence to the recollection of james steerforths tenderness  he would have made you his servingmans wife, would he not  or to feeling grateful to the upright and deserving creature who would have taken you as his gift. or, if those proud remembrances, and the consciousness of your own virtues, and the honourable position to which they have raised you in the eyes of everything that wears the human shape, will not sustain you, marry that good man, and be happy in his condescension. if this will not do either, die there are doorways and dustheaps for such deaths, and such despair  find one, and take your flight to heaven

i heard a distant foot upon the stairs. i knew it, i was certain.

it was his, thank god

she moved slowly from before the door when she said this, and passed out of my sight.

but mark she added, slowly and sternly, opening the other door to go away, i am resolved, for reasons that i have and hatreds that i entertain, to cast you out, unless you withdraw from my reach altogether, or drop your pretty mask. this is what i had to say and what i say, i mean to do

the foot upon the stairs came nearer  nearer  passed her as she went down  rushed into the room uncle

a fearful cry followed the word. i paused a moment, and looking in, saw him supporting her insensible figure in his arms. he gazed for a few seconds in the face then stooped to kiss it  oh, how tenderly  and drew a handkerchief before it.

masr davy, he said, in a low tremulous voice, when it was covered, i thank my heavnly father as my dreams come true i thank him hearty for having guided of me, in his own ways, to my darling

with those words he took her up in his arms and, with the veiled face lying on his bosom, and addressed towards his own, carried her, motionless and unconscious, down the stairs.



chapter 

the beginning of a longer journey

it was yet early in the morning of the following day, when, as i was walking in my garden with my aunt who took little other exercise now, being so much in attendance on my dear dora, i was told that mr. peggotty desired to speak with me. he came into the garden to meet me halfway, on my going towards the gate and bared his head, as it was always his custom to do when he saw my aunt, for whom he had a high respect. i had been telling her all that had happened overnight. without saying a word, she walked up with a cordial face, shook hands with him, and patted him on the arm.

it was so expressively done, that she had no need to say a word.

mr. peggotty understood her quite as well as if she had said a thousand.

ill go in now, trot, said my aunt, and look after little blossom, who will be getting up presently.

not along of my being heer, maam, i hope said mr. peggotty.

unless my wits is gone a bahds neezing  by which mr. peggotty meant to say, birdsnesting  this morning, tis along of me as youre agoing to quit us

you have something to say, my good friend, returned my aunt, and will do better without me.

by your leave, maam, returned mr. peggotty, i should take it kind, pervising you doent mind my clicketten, if youd bide heer.

would you said my aunt, with short goodnature. then i am sure i will

so, she drew her arm through mr. peggottys, and walked with him to a leafy little summerhouse there was at the bottom of the garden, where she sat down on a bench, and i beside her. there was a seat for mr. peggotty too, but he preferred to stand, leaning his hand on the small rustic table. as he stood, looking at his cap for a little while before beginning to speak, i could not help observing what power and force of character his sinewy hand expressed, and what a good and trusty companion it was to his honest brow and irongrey hair.

i took my dear child away last night, mr. peggotty began, as he raised his eyes to ours, to my lodging, wheer i have a long time been expecting of her and preparing fur her. it was hours afore she knowed me right and when she did, she kneeled down at my feet, and kiender said to me, as if it was her prayers, how it all come to be. you may believe me, when i heerd her voice, as i had heerd at home so playful  and see her humbled, as it might be in the dust our saviour wrote in with his blessed hand  i felt a wownd go to my art, in the midst of all its thankfulness.

he drew his sleeve across his face, without any pretence of concealing why and then cleared his voice.

it warnt for long as i felt that for she was found. i had ony to think as she was found, and it was gone. i doent know why i do so much as mention of it now, im sure. i didnt have it in my mind a minute ago, to say a word about myself but it come up so natral, that i yielded to it afore i was aweer.

you are a selfdenying soul, said my aunt, and will have your reward.

mr. peggotty, with the shadows of the leaves playing athwart his face, made a surprised inclination of the head towards my aunt, as an acknowledgement of her good opinion then took up the thread he had relinquished.

when my emly took flight, he said, in stern wrath for the moment, from the house wheer she was made a prisoner by that theer spotted snake as masr davy see,  and his storys trew, and may god confound him  she took flight in the night. it was a dark night, with a many stars ashining. she was wild. she ran along the sea beach, believing the old boat was theer and calling out to us to turn away our faces, for she was acoming by. she heerd herself acrying out, like as if it was another person and cut herself on them sharppinted stones and rocks, and felt it no more than if she had been rock herself. ever so fur she run, and there was fire afore her eyes, and roarings in her ears. of a sudden  or so she thowt, you unnerstand  the day broke, wet and windy, and she was lying blow a heap of stone upon the shore, and a woman was aspeaking to her, saying, in the language of that country, what was it as had gone so much amiss

he saw everything he related. it passed before him, as he spoke, so vividly, that, in the intensity of his earnestness, he presented what he described to me, with greater distinctness than i can express. i can hardly believe, writing now long afterwards, but that i was actually present in these scenes they are impressed upon me with such an astonishing air of fidelity.

as emlys eyes  which was heavy  see this woman better, mr.

peggotty went on, she knowd as she was one of them as she had often talked to on the beach. fur, though she had run as i have said ever so fur in the night, she had oftentimes wandered long ways, partly afoot, partly in boats and carriages, and knowd all that country, long the coast, miles and miles. she hadnt no children of her own, this woman, being a young wife but she was alooking to have one afore long. and may my prayers go up to heaven that twill be a happiness to her, and a comfort, and a honour, all her life may it love her and be dootiful to her, in her old age helpful of her at the last a angel to her heer, and heerafter

amen said my aunt.

she had been summat timorous and down, said mr. peggotty, and had sat, at first, a little way off, at her spinning, or such work as it was, when emly talked to the children. but emly had took notice of her, and had gone and spoke to her and as the young woman was partial to the children herself, they had soon made friends. sermuchser, that when emly went that way, she always giv emly flowers. this was her as now asked what it was that had gone so much amiss. emly told her, and she  took her home. she did indeed. she took her home, said mr. peggotty, covering his face.

he was more affected by this act of kindness, than i had ever seen him affected by anything since the night she went away. my aunt and i did not attempt to disturb him.

it was a little cottage, you may suppose, he said, presently, but she found space for emly in it,  her husband was away at sea,  and she kep it secret, and prevailed upon such neighbours as she had they was not many near to keep it secret too. emly was took bad with fever, and, what is very strange to me is,  maybe tis not so strange to scholars,  the language of that country went out of her head, and she could only speak her own, that no one unnerstood. she recollects, as if she had dreamed it, that she lay there always atalking her own tongue, always believing as the old boat was round the next pint in the bay, and begging and imploring of em to send theer and tell how she was dying, and bring back a message of forgiveness, if it was ony a wured. amost the whole time, she thowt,  now, that him as i made mention on just now was lurking for her unnerneath the winder now that him as had brought her to this was in the room,  and cried to the good young woman not to give her up, and knowd, at the same time, that she couldnt unnerstand, and dreaded that she must be took away. likewise the fire was afore her eyes, and the roarings in her ears and theer was no today, nor yesterday, nor yet tomorrow but everything in her life as ever had been, or as ever could be, and everything as never had been, and as never could be, was a crowding on her all at once, and nothing clear nor welcome, and yet she sang and laughed about it how long this lasted, i doent know but then theer come a sleep and in that sleep, from being a many times stronger than her own self, she fell into the weakness of the littlest child.

here he stopped, as if for relief from the terrors of his own description. after being silent for a few moments, he pursued his story.

it was a pleasant arternoon when she awoke and so quiet, that there warnt a sound but the rippling of that blue sea without a tide, upon the shore. it was her belief, at first, that she was at home upon a sunday morning but the vine leaves as she see at the winder, and the hills beyond, warnt home, and contradicted of her.

then, come in her friend to watch alongside of her bed and then she knowd as the old boat warnt round that next pint in the bay no more, but was fur off and knowd where she was, and why and broke out acrying on that good young womans bosom, wheer i hope her baby is alying now, acheering of her with its pretty eyes

he could not speak of this good friend of emilys without a flow of tears. it was in vain to try. he broke down again, endeavouring to bless her that done my emly good, he resumed, after such emotion as i could not behold without sharing in and as to my aunt, she wept with all her heart that done emly good, and she begun to mend.

but, the language of that country was quite gone from her, and she was forced to make signs. so she went on, getting better from day to day, slow, but sure, and trying to learn the names of common things  names as she seemed never to have heerd in all her life  till one evening come, when she was asetting at her window, looking at a little girl at play upon the beach. and of a sudden this child held out her hand, and said, what would be in english,

fishermans daughter, heres a shell  for you are to unnerstand that they used at first to call her pretty lady, as the general way in that country is, and that she had taught em to call her fishermans daughter instead. the child says of a sudden,

fishermans daughter, heres a shell then emly unnerstands her and she answers, bursting out acrying and it all comes back when emly got strong again, said mr. peggotty, after another short interval of silence, she cast about to leave that good young creetur, and get to her own country. the husband was come home, then and the two together put her aboard a small trader bound to leghorn, and from that to france. she had a little money, but it was less than little as they would take for all they done. im amost glad on it, though they was so poor what they done, is laid up wheer neither moth or rust doth corrupt, and wheer thieves do not break through nor steal. masr davy, itll outlast all the treasure in the wureld.

emly got to france, and took service to wait on travelling ladies at a inn in the port. theer, theer come, one day, that snake.  let him never come nigh me. i doent know what hurt i might do him  soon as she see him, without him seeing her, all her fear and wildness returned upon her, and she fled afore the very breath he drawd. she come to england, and was set ashore at dover.

i doent know, said mr. peggotty, for sure, when her art begun to fail her but all the way to england she had thowt to come to her dear home. soon as she got to england she turned her face towrds it. but, fear of not being forgiv, fear of being pinted at, fear of some of us being dead along of her, fear of many things, turned her from it, kiender by force, upon the road

uncle, uncle, she says to me, the fear of not being worthy to do what my torn and bleeding breast so longed to do, was the most frightning fear of all i turned back, when my art was full of prayers that i might crawl to the old doorstep, in the night, kiss it, lay my wicked face upon it, and theer be found dead in the morning. she come, said mr. peggotty, dropping his voice to an awestricken whisper, to london. she  as had never seen it in her life  alone  without a penny  young  so pretty  come to london. amost the moment as she lighted heer, all so desolate, she found as she believed a friend a decent woman as spoke to her about the needlework as she had been brought up to do, about finding plenty of it fur her, about a lodging fur the night, and making secret inquiration concerning of me and all at home, tomorrow. when my child, he said aloud, and with an energy of gratitude that shook him from head to foot, stood upon the brink of more than i can say or think on  martha, trew to her promise, saved her.

i could not repress a cry of joy.

masr davy said he, gripping my hand in that strong hand of his, it was you as first made mention of her to me. i thankee, sir

she was arnest. she had knowd of her bitter knowledge wheer to watch and what to do. she had done it. and the lord was above all she come, white and hurried, upon emly in her sleep. she says to her, rise up from worse than death, and come with me

them belonging to the house would have stopped her, but they might as soon have stopped the sea. stand away from me, she says, i am a ghost that calls her from beside her open grave she told emly she had seen me, and knowd i loved her, and forgive her.

she wrapped her, hasty, in her clothes. she took her, faint and trembling, on her arm. she heeded no more what they said, than if she had had no ears. she walked among em with my child, minding only her and brought her safe out, in the dead of the night, from that black pit of ruin she attended on emly, said mr. peggotty, who had released my hand, and put his own hand on his heaving chest she attended to my emly, lying wearied out, and wandering betwixt whiles, till late next day. then she went in search of me then in search of you, masr davy. she didnt tell emly what she come out fur, lest her art should fail, and she should think of hiding of herself.

how the cruel lady knowd of her being theer, i cant say. whether him as i have spoke so much of, chanced to see em going theer, or whether which is most like, to my thinking he had heerd it from the woman, i doent greatly ask myself. my niece is found.

all night long, said mr. peggotty, we have been together, emly and me. tis little considering the time as she has said, in wureds, through them brokenhearted tears tis less as i have seen of her dear face, as growd into a womans at my hearth. but, all night long, her arms has been about my neck and her head has laid heer and we knows full well, as we can put our trust in one another, ever more.

he ceased to speak, and his hand upon the table rested there in perfect repose, with a resolution in it that might have conquered lions.

it was a gleam of light upon me, trot, said my aunt, drying her eyes, when i formed the resolution of being godmother to your sister betsey trotwood, who disappointed me but, next to that, hardly anything would have given me greater pleasure, than to be godmother to that good young creatures baby

mr. peggotty nodded his understanding of my aunts feelings, but could not trust himself with any verbal reference to the subject of her commendation. we all remained silent, and occupied with our own reflections my aunt drying her eyes, and now sobbing convulsively, and now laughing and calling herself a fool until i spoke.

you have quite made up your mind, said i to mr. peggotty, as to the future, good friend i need scarcely ask you.

quite, masr davy, he returned and told emly. theers mighty countries, fur from heer. our future life lays over the sea.

they will emigrate together, aunt, said i.

yes said mr. peggotty, with a hopeful smile. no one cant reproach my darling in australia. we will begin a new life over theer

i asked him if he yet proposed to himself any time for going away.

i was down at the docks early this morning, sir, he returned, to get information concerning of them ships. in about six weeks or two months from now, therell be one sailing  i see her this morning  went aboard  and we shall take our passage in her.

quite alone i asked.

aye, masr davy he returned. my sister, you see, shes that fond of you and yourn, and that accustomed to think ony of her own country, that it wouldnt be hardly fair to let her go. besides which, theers one she has in charge, masr davy, as doent ought to be forgot.

poor ham said i.

my good sister takes care of his house, you see, maam, and he takes kindly to her, mr. peggotty explained for my aunts better information. hell set and talk to her, with a calm spirit, wen its like he couldnt bring himself to open his lips to another.

poor fellow said mr. peggotty, shaking his head, theers not so much left him, that he could spare the little as he has

and mrs. gummidge said i.

well, ive had a mort of consideration, i do tell you, returned mr. peggotty, with a perplexed look which gradually cleared as he went on, concerning of missis gummidge. you see, wen missis gummidge falls athinking of the old un, she ant what you may call good company. betwixt you and me, masr davy  and you, maam  wen mrs. gummidge takes to wimicking,  our old country word for crying,  shes liable to be considered to be, by them as didnt know the old un, peevishlike. now i did know the old un, said mr. peggotty, and i knowd his merits, so i unnerstan her but tant entirely so, you see, with others  natrally cant be

my aunt and i both acquiesced.

wheerby, said mr. peggotty, my sister might  i doent say she would, but might  find missis gummidge give her a leetle trouble nowandagain. theerfur tant my intentions to moor missis gummidge long with them, but to find a beein fur her wheer she can fisherate for herself. a beein signifies, in that dialect, a home, and to fisherate is to provide. fur which purpose, said mr. peggotty, i means to make her a lowance afore i go, asll leave her pretty comfortble. shes the faithfullest of creeturs.

tant to be expected, of course, at her time of life, and being lone and lorn, as the good old mawther is to be knocked about aboardship, and in the woods and wilds of a new and furaway country. so thats what im agoing to do with her.

he forgot nobody. he thought of everybodys claims and strivings, but his own.

emly, he continued, will keep along with me  poor child, shes sore in need of peace and rest  until such time as we goes upon our voyage. shell work at them clothes, as must be made and i hope her troubles will begin to seem longer ago than they was, wen she finds herself once more by her rough but loving uncle.

my aunt nodded confirmation of this hope, and imparted great satisfaction to mr. peggotty.

theers one thing furder, masr davy, said he, putting his hand in his breastpocket, and gravely taking out the little paper bundle i had seen before, which he unrolled on the table. theers these here banknotes  fifty pound, and ten. to them i wish to add the money as she come away with. ive asked her about that but not saying why, and have added of it up. i ant a scholar. would you be so kind as see how tis

he handed me, apologetically for his scholarship, a piece of paper, and observed me while i looked it over. it was quite right.

thankee, sir, he said, taking it back. this money, if you doent see objections, masr davy, i shall put up jest afore i go, in a cover directed to him and put that up in another, directed to his mother. i shall tell her, in no more wureds than i speak to you, what its the price on and that im gone, and past receiving of it back.

i told him that i thought it would be right to do so  that i was thoroughly convinced it would be, since he felt it to be right.

i said that theer was ony one thing furder, he proceeded with a grave smile, when he had made up his little bundle again, and put it in his pocket but theer was two. i warnt sure in my mind, wen i come out this morning, as i could go and break to ham, of my own self, what had so thankfully happened. so i writ a letter while i was out, and put it in the postoffice, telling of em how all was as tis and that i should come down tomorrow to unload my mind of what little needs adoing of down theer, and, mostlike, take my farewell leave of yarmouth.

and do you wish me to go with you said i, seeing that he left something unsaid.

if you could do me that kind favour, masr davy, he replied. i know the sight on you would cheer em up a bit.

my little dora being in good spirits, and very desirous that i should go  as i found on talking it over with her  i readily pledged myself to accompany him in accordance with his wish. next morning, consequently, we were on the yarmouth coach, and again travelling over the old ground.

as we passed along the familiar street at night  mr. peggotty, in despite of all my remonstrances, carrying my bag  i glanced into omer and jorams shop, and saw my old friend mr. omer there, smoking his pipe. i felt reluctant to be present, when mr.

peggotty first met his sister and ham and made mr. omer my excuse for lingering behind.

how is mr. omer, after this long time said i, going in.

he fanned away the smoke of his pipe, that he might get a better view of me, and soon recognized me with great delight.

i should get up, sir, to acknowledge such an honour as this visit, said he, only my limbs are rather out of sorts, and i am wheeled about. with the exception of my limbs and my breath, howsoever, i am as hearty as a man can be, im thankful to say.

i congratulated him on his contented looks and his good spirits, and saw, now, that his easychair went on wheels.

its an ingenious thing, aint it he inquired, following the direction of my glance, and polishing the elbow with his arm. it runs as light as a feather, and tracks as true as a mailcoach.

bless you, my little minnie  my granddaughter you know, minnies child  puts her little strength against the back, gives it a shove, and away we go, as clever and merry as ever you see anything and i tell you what  its a most uncommon chair to smoke a pipe in.

i never saw such a good old fellow to make the best of a thing, and find out the enjoyment of it, as mr. omer. he was as radiant, as if his chair, his asthma, and the failure of his limbs, were the various branches of a great invention for enhancing the luxury of a pipe.

i see more of the world, i can assure you, said mr. omer, in this chair, than ever i see out of it. youd be surprised at the number of people that looks in of a day to have a chat. you really would theres twice as much in the newspaper, since ive taken to this chair, as there used to be. as to general reading, dear me, what a lot of it i do get through thats what i feel so strong, you know if it had been my eyes, what should i have done if it had been my ears, what should i have done being my limbs, what does it signify why, my limbs only made my breath shorter when i used em. and now, if i want to go out into the street or down to the sands, ive only got to call dick, jorams youngest prentice, and away i go in my own carriage, like the lord mayor of london.

he half suffocated himself with laughing here.

lord bless you said mr. omer, resuming his pipe, a man must take the fat with the lean thats what he must make up his mind to, in this life. joram does a fine business. excellent business

i am very glad to hear it, said i.

i knew you would be, said mr. omer. and joram and minnie are like valentines. what more can a man expect whats his limbs to that

his supreme contempt for his own limbs, as he sat smoking, was one of the pleasantest oddities i have ever encountered.

and since ive took to general reading, youve took to general writing, eh, sir said mr. omer, surveying me admiringly. what a lovely work that was of yours what expressions in it i read it every word  every word. and as to feeling sleepy not at all

i laughingly expressed my satisfaction, but i must confess that i thought this association of ideas significant.

i give you my word and honour, sir, said mr. omer, that when i lay that book upon the table, and look at it outside compact in three separate and indiwidual wollumes  one, two, three i am as proud as punch to think that i once had the honour of being connected with your family. and dear me, its a long time ago, now, aint it over at blunderstone. with a pretty little party laid along with the other party. and you quite a small party then, yourself. dear, dear

i changed the subject by referring to emily. after assuring him that i did not forget how interested he had always been in her, and how kindly he had always treated her, i gave him a general account of her restoration to her uncle by the aid of martha which i knew would please the old man. he listened with the utmost attention, and said, feelingly, when i had done i am rejoiced at it, sir its the best news i have heard for many a day. dear, dear, dear and whats going to be undertook for that unfortunate young woman, martha, now

you touch a point that my thoughts have been dwelling on since yesterday, said i, but on which i can give you no information yet, mr. omer. mr. peggotty has not alluded to it, and i have a delicacy in doing so. i am sure he has not forgotten it. he forgets nothing that is disinterested and good.

because you know, said mr. omer, taking himself up, where he had left off, whatever is done, i should wish to be a member of. put me down for anything you may consider right, and let me know. i never could think the girl all bad, and i am glad to find shes not. so will my daughter minnie be. young women are contradictory creatures in some things  her mother was just the same as her  but their hearts are soft and kind. its all show with minnie, about martha. why she should consider it necessary to make any show, i dont undertake to tell you. but its all show, bless you.

shed do her any kindness in private. so, put me down for whatever you may consider right, will you be so good and drop me a line where to forward it. dear me said mr. omer, when a man is drawing on to a time of life, where the two ends of life meet when he finds himself, however hearty he is, being wheeled about for the second time, in a speeches of gocart he should be overrejoiced to do a kindness if he can. he wants plenty. and i dont speak of myself, particular, said mr. omer, because, sir, the way i look at it is, that we are all drawing on to the bottom of the hill, whatever age we are, on account of time never standing still for a single moment. so let us always do a kindness, and be overrejoiced. to be sure

he knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and put it on a ledge in the back of his chair, expressly made for its reception.

theres emlys cousin, him that she was to have been married to, said mr. omer, rubbing his hands feebly, as fine a fellow as there is in yarmouth hell come and talk or read to me, in the evening, for an hour together sometimes. thats a kindness, i should call it all his lifes a kindness.

i am going to see him now, said i.

are you said mr. omer. tell him i was hearty, and sent my respects. minnie and jorams at a ball. they would be as proud to see you as i am, if they was at home. minnie wont hardly go out at all, you see, on account of father, as she says. so i swore tonight, that if she didnt go, id go to bed at six. in consequence of which, mr. omer shook himself and his chair with laughter at the success of his device, she and jorams at a ball.

i shook hands with him, and wished him good night.

half a minute, sir, said mr. omer. if you was to go without seeing my little elephant, youd lose the best of sights. you never see such a sight minnie

a musical little voice answered, from somewhere upstairs, i am coming, grandfather and a pretty little girl with long, flaxen, curling hair, soon came running into the shop.

this is my little elephant, sir, said mr. omer, fondling the child. siamese breed, sir. now, little elephant

the little elephant set the door of the parlour open, enabling me to see that, in these latter days, it was converted into a bedroom for mr. omer who could not be easily conveyed upstairs and then hid her pretty forehead, and tumbled her long hair, against the back of mr. omers chair.

the elephant butts, you know, sir, said mr. omer, winking, when he goes at a object. once, elephant. twice. three times

at this signal, the little elephant, with a dexterity that was next to marvellous in so small an animal, whisked the chair round with mr. omer in it, and rattled it off, pellmell, into the parlour, without touching the doorpost mr. omer indescribably enjoying the performance, and looking back at me on the road as if it were the triumphant issue of his lifes exertions.

after a stroll about the town i went to hams house. peggotty had now removed here for good and had let her own house to the successor of mr. barkis in the carrying business, who had paid her very well for the goodwill, cart, and horse. i believe the very same slow horse that mr. barkis drove was still at work.

i found them in the neat kitchen, accompanied by mrs. gummidge, who had been fetched from the old boat by mr. peggotty himself. i doubt if she could have been induced to desert her post, by anyone else. he had evidently told them all. both peggotty and mrs.

gummidge had their aprons to their eyes, and ham had just stepped out to take a turn on the beach. he presently came home, very glad to see me and i hope they were all the better for my being there. we spoke, with some approach to cheerfulness, of mr.

peggottys growing rich in a new country, and of the wonders he would describe in his letters. we said nothing of emily by name, but distantly referred to her more than once. ham was the serenest of the party.

but, peggotty told me, when she lighted me to a little chamber where the crocodile book was lying ready for me on the table, that he always was the same. she believed she told me, crying that he was brokenhearted though he was as full of courage as of sweetness, and worked harder and better than any boatbuilder in any yard in all that part. there were times, she said, of an evening, when he talked of their old life in the boathouse and then he mentioned emily as a child. but, he never mentioned her as a woman.

i thought i had read in his face that he would like to speak to me alone. i therefore resolved to put myself in his way next evening, as he came home from his work. having settled this with myself, i fell asleep. that night, for the first time in all those many nights, the candle was taken out of the window, mr. peggotty swung in his old hammock in the old boat, and the wind murmured with the old sound round his head.

all next day, he was occupied in disposing of his fishingboat and tackle in packing up, and sending to london by waggon, such of his little domestic possessions as he thought would be useful to him and in parting with the rest, or bestowing them on mrs. gummidge.

she was with him all day. as i had a sorrowful wish to see the old place once more, before it was locked up, i engaged to meet them there in the evening. but i so arranged it, as that i should meet ham first.

it was easy to come in his way, as i knew where he worked. i met him at a retired part of the sands, which i knew he would cross, and turned back with him, that he might have leisure to speak to me if he really wished. i had not mistaken the expression of his face. we had walked but a little way together, when he said, without looking at me masr davy, have you seen her

only for a moment, when she was in a swoon, i softly answered.

we walked a little farther, and he said masr davy, shall you see her, dye think

it would be too painful to her, perhaps, said i.

i have thowt of that, he replied. so twould, sir, so twould.

but, ham, said i, gently, if there is anything that i could write to her, for you, in case i could not tell it if there is anything you would wish to make known to her through me i should consider it a sacred trust.

i am sure ont. i thankee, sir, most kind i think theer is something i could wish said or wrote.

what is it

we walked a little farther in silence, and then he spoke.

tant that i forgive her. tant that so much. tis more as i beg of her to forgive me, for having pressed my affections upon her. odd times, i think that if i hadnt had her promise fur to marry me, sir, she was that trustful of me, in a friendly way, that shed have told me what was struggling in her mind, and would have counselled with me, and i might have saved her.

i pressed his hand. is that all

theers yet a something else, he returned, if i can say it, masr davy.

we walked on, farther than we had walked yet, before he spoke again. he was not crying when he made the pauses i shall express by lines. he was merely collecting himself to speak very plainly.

i loved her  and i love the memry of her  too deep  to be able to lead her to believe of my own self as im a happy man. i could only be happy  by forgetting of her  and im afeerd i couldnt hardly bear as she should be told i done that. but if you, being so full of learning, masr davy, could think of anything to say as might bring her to believe i wasnt greatly hurt still loving of her, and mourning for her anything as might bring her to believe as i was not tired of my life, and yet was hoping fur to see her without blame, wheer the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest  anything as would ease her sorrowful mind, and yet not make her think as i could ever marry, or as twas possible that anyone could ever be to me what she was  i should ask of you to say that  with my prayers for her  that was so dear.

i pressed his manly hand again, and told him i would charge myself to do this as well as i could.

i thankee, sir, he answered. twas kind of you to meet me.

twas kind of you to bear him company down. masr davy, i unnerstan very well, though my aunt will come to lonon afore they sail, and theyll unite once more, that i am not like to see him agen. i fare to feel sure ont. we doent say so, but so twill be, and better so. the last you see on him  the very last  will you give him the lovingest duty and thanks of the orphan, as he was ever more than a father to

this i also promised, faithfully.

i thankee agen, sir, he said, heartily shaking hands. i know wheer youre agoing. goodbye

with a slight wave of his hand, as though to explain to me that he could not enter the old place, he turned away. as i looked after his figure, crossing the waste in the moonlight, i saw him turn his face towards a strip of silvery light upon the sea, and pass on, looking at it, until he was a shadow in the distance.

the door of the boathouse stood open when i approached and, on entering, i found it emptied of all its furniture, saving one of the old lockers, on which mrs. gummidge, with a basket on her knee, was seated, looking at mr. peggotty. he leaned his elbow on the rough chimneypiece, and gazed upon a few expiring embers in the grate but he raised his head, hopefully, on my coming in, and spoke in a cheery manner.

come, according to promise, to bid farewell to t, eh, masr davy he said, taking up the candle. bare enough, now, ant it

indeed you have made good use of the time, said i.

why, we have not been idle, sir. missis gummidge has worked like a  i doent know what missis gummidge ant worked like, said mr.

peggotty, looking at her, at a loss for a sufficiently approving simile.

mrs. gummidge, leaning on her basket, made no observation.

theers the very locker that you used to sit on, long with emly said mr. peggotty, in a whisper. im agoing to carry it away with me, last of all. and heers your old little bedroom, see, masr davy amost as bleak tonight, as art could wish

in truth, the wind, though it was low, had a solemn sound, and crept around the deserted house with a whispered wailing that was very mournful. everything was gone, down to the little mirror with the oystershell frame. i thought of myself, lying here, when that first great change was being wrought at home. i thought of the blueeyed child who had enchanted me. i thought of steerforth and a foolish, fearful fancy came upon me of his being near at hand, and liable to be met at any turn.

tis like to be long, said mr. peggotty, in a low voice, afore the boat finds new tenants. they look upon t, down beer, as being unfortunate now

does it belong to anybody in the neighbourhood i asked.

to a mastmaker up town, said mr. peggotty. im agoing to give the key to him tonight.

we looked into the other little room, and came back to mrs.

gummidge, sitting on the locker, whom mr. peggotty, putting the light on the chimneypiece, requested to rise, that he might carry it outside the door before extinguishing the candle.

danl, said mrs. gummidge, suddenly deserting her basket, and clinging to his arm my dear danl, the parting words i speak in this house is, i mustnt be left behind. doent ye think of leaving me behind, danl oh, doent ye ever do it

mr. peggotty, taken aback, looked from mrs. gummidge to me, and from me to mrs. gummidge, as if he had been awakened from a sleep.

doent ye, dearest danl, doent ye cried mrs. gummidge, fervently. take me long with you, danl, take me long with you and emly ill be your servant, constant and trew. if theres slaves in them parts where youre agoing, ill be bound to you for one, and happy, but doent ye leave me behind, danl, thats a deary dear

my good soul, said mr. peggotty, shaking his head, you doent know what a long voyage, and what a hard life tis

yes, i do, danl i can guess cried mrs. gummidge. but my parting words under this roof is, i shall go into the house and die, if i am not took. i can dig, danl. i can work. i can live hard. i can be loving and patient now  more than you think, danl, if youll ony try me. i wouldnt touch the lowance, not if i was dying of want, danl peggotty but ill go with you and emly, if youll ony let me, to the worlds end i know how tis

i know you think that i am lone and lorn but, deary love, tant so no more i aint sat here, so long, awatching, and athinking of your trials, without some good being done me. masr davy, speak to him for me i knows his ways, and emlys, and i knows their sorrows, and can be a comfort to em, some odd times, and labour for em allus danl, deary danl, let me go long with you

and mrs. gummidge took his hand, and kissed it with a homely pathos and affection, in a homely rapture of devotion and gratitude, that he well deserved.

we brought the locker out, extinguished the candle, fastened the door on the outside, and left the old boat close shut up, a dark speck in the cloudy night. next day, when we were returning to london outside the coach, mrs. gummidge and her basket were on the seat behind, and mrs. gummidge was happy.



chapter 

i assist at an explosion

when the time mr. micawber had appointed so mysteriously, was within fourandtwenty hours of being come, my aunt and i consulted how we should proceed for my aunt was very unwilling to leave dora. ah how easily i carried dora up and down stairs, now

we were disposed, notwithstanding mr. micawbers stipulation for my aunts attendance, to arrange that she should stay at home, and be represented by mr. dick and me. in short, we had resolved to take this course, when dora again unsettled us by declaring that she never would forgive herself, and never would forgive her bad boy, if my aunt remained behind, on any pretence.

i wont speak to you, said dora, shaking her curls at my aunt.

ill be disagreeable ill make jip bark at you all day. i shall be sure that you really are a cross old thing, if you dont go

tut, blossom laughed my aunt. you know you cant do without me

yes, i can, said dora. you are no use to me at all. you never run up and down stairs for me, all day long. you never sit and tell me stories about doady, when his shoes were worn out, and he was covered with dust  oh, what a poor little mite of a fellow

you never do anything at all to please me, do you, dear dora made haste to kiss my aunt, and say, yes, you do im only jokinglest my aunt should think she really meant it.

but, aunt, said dora, coaxingly, now listen. you must go. i shall tease you, till you let me have my own way about it. i shall lead my naughty boy such a life, if he dont make you go. i shall make myself so disagreeable  and so will jip youll wish you had gone, like a good thing, for ever and ever so long, if you dont go. besides, said dora, putting back her hair, and looking wonderingly at my aunt and me, why shouldnt you both go i am not very ill indeed. am i

why, what a question cried my aunt.

what a fancy said i.

yes i know i am a silly little thing said dora, slowly looking from one of us to the other, and then putting up her pretty lips to kiss us as she lay upon her couch. well, then, you must both go, or i shall not believe you and then i shall cry

i saw, in my aunts face, that she began to give way now, and dora brightened again, as she saw it too.

youll come back with so much to tell me, that itll take at least a week to make me understand said dora. because i know i shant understand, for a length of time, if theres any business in it.

and theres sure to be some business in it if theres anything to add up, besides, i dont know when i shall make it out and my bad boy will look so miserable all the time. there now youll go, wont you youll only be gone one night, and jip will take care of me while you are gone. doady will carry me upstairs before you go, and i wont come down again till you come back and you shall take agnes a dreadfully scolding letter from me, because she has never been to see us

we agreed, without any more consultation, that we would both go, and that dora was a little impostor, who feigned to be rather unwell, because she liked to be petted. she was greatly pleased, and very merry and we four, that is to say, my aunt, mr. dick, traddles, and i, went down to canterbury by the dover mail that night.

at the hotel where mr. micawber had requested us to await him, which we got into, with some trouble, in the middle of the night, i found a letter, importing that he would appear in the morning punctually at half past nine. after which, we went shivering, at that uncomfortable hour, to our respective beds, through various close passages which smelt as if they had been steeped, for ages, in a solution of soup and stables.

early in the morning, i sauntered through the dear old tranquil streets, and again mingled with the shadows of the venerable gateways and churches. the rooks were sailing about the cathedral towers and the towers themselves, overlooking many a long unaltered mile of the rich country and its pleasant streams, were cutting the bright morning air, as if there were no such thing as change on earth. yet the bells, when they sounded, told me sorrowfully of change in everything told me of their own age, and my pretty doras youth and of the many, never old, who had lived and loved and died, while the reverberations of the bells had hummed through the rusty armour of the black prince hanging up within, and, motes upon the deep of time, had lost themselves in air, as circles do in water.

i looked at the old house from the corner of the street, but did not go nearer to it, lest, being observed, i might unwittingly do any harm to the design i had come to aid. the early sun was striking edgewise on its gables and latticewindows, touching them with gold and some beams of its old peace seemed to touch my heart.

i strolled into the country for an hour or so, and then returned by the main street, which in the interval had shaken off its last nights sleep. among those who were stirring in the shops, i saw my ancient enemy the butcher, now advanced to topboots and a baby, and in business for himself. he was nursing the baby, and appeared to be a benignant member of society.

we all became very anxious and impatient, when we sat down to breakfast. as it approached nearer and nearer to half past nine oclock, our restless expectation of mr. micawber increased. at last we made no more pretence of attending to the meal, which, except with mr. dick, had been a mere form from the first but my aunt walked up and down the room, traddles sat upon the sofa affecting to read the paper with his eyes on the ceiling and i looked out of the window to give early notice of mr. micawbers coming. nor had i long to watch, for, at the first chime of the half hour, he appeared in the street.

here he is, said i, and not in his legal attire

my aunt tied the strings of her bonnet she had come down to breakfast in it, and put on her shawl, as if she were ready for anything that was resolute and uncompromising. traddles buttoned his coat with a determined air. mr. dick, disturbed by these formidable appearances, but feeling it necessary to imitate them, pulled his hat, with both hands, as firmly over his ears as he possibly could and instantly took it off again, to welcome mr.

micawber.

gentlemen, and madam, said mr. micawber, good morning my dear sir, to mr. dick, who shook hands with him violently, you are extremely good.

have you breakfasted said mr. dick. have a chop

not for the world, my good sir cried mr. micawber, stopping him on his way to the bell appetite and myself, mr. dixon, have long been strangers.

mr. dixon was so well pleased with his new name, and appeared to think it so obliging in mr. micawber to confer it upon him, that he shook hands with him again, and laughed rather childishly.

dick, said my aunt, attention

mr. dick recovered himself, with a blush.

now, sir, said my aunt to mr. micawber, as she put on her gloves, we are ready for mount vesuvius, or anything else, as soon as you please.

madam, returned mr. micawber, i trust you will shortly witness an eruption. mr. traddles, i have your permission, i believe, to mention here that we have been in communication together

it is undoubtedly the fact, copperfield, said traddles, to whom i looked in surprise. mr. micawber has consulted me in reference to what he has in contemplation and i have advised him to the best of my judgement.

unless i deceive myself, mr. traddles, pursued mr. micawber, what i contemplate is a disclosure of an important nature.

highly so, said traddles.

perhaps, under such circumstances, madam and gentlemen, said mr.

micawber, you will do me the favour to submit yourselves, for the moment, to the direction of one who, however unworthy to be regarded in any other light but as a waif and stray upon the shore of human nature, is still your fellowman, though crushed out of his original form by individual errors, and the accumulative force of a combination of circumstances

we have perfect confidence in you, mr. micawber, said i, and will do what you please.

mr. copperfield, returned mr. micawber, your confidence is not, at the existing juncture, illbestowed. i would beg to be allowed a start of five minutes by the clock and then to receive the present company, inquiring for miss wickfield, at the office of wickfield and heep, whose stipendiary i am.

my aunt and i looked at traddles, who nodded his approval.

i have no more, observed mr. micawber, to say at present.

with which, to my infinite surprise, he included us all in a comprehensive bow, and disappeared his manner being extremely distant, and his face extremely pale.

traddles only smiled, and shook his head with his hair standing upright on the top of it, when i looked to him for an explanation so i took out my watch, and, as a last resource, counted off the five minutes. my aunt, with her own watch in her hand, did the like. when the time was expired, traddles gave her his arm and we all went out together to the old house, without saying one word on the way.

we found mr. micawber at his desk, in the turret office on the ground floor, either writing, or pretending to write, hard. the large officeruler was stuck into his waistcoat, and was not so well concealed but that a foot or more of that instrument protruded from his bosom, like a new kind of shirtfrill.

as it appeared to me that i was expected to speak, i said aloud how do you do, mr. micawber

mr. copperfield, said mr. micawber, gravely, i hope i see you well

is miss wickfield at home said i.

mr. wickfield is unwell in bed, sir, of a rheumatic fever, he returned but miss wickfield, i have no doubt, will be happy to see old friends. will you walk in, sir

he preceded us to the diningroom  the first room i had entered in that house  and flinging open the door of mr. wickfields former office, said, in a sonorous voice miss trotwood, mr. david copperfield, mr. thomas traddles, and mr.

dixon

i had not seen uriah heep since the time of the blow. our visit astonished him, evidently not the less, i dare say, because it astonished ourselves. he did not gather his eyebrows together, for he had none worth mentioning but he frowned to that degree that he almost closed his small eyes, while the hurried raising of his grisly hand to his chin betrayed some trepidation or surprise.

this was only when we were in the act of entering his room, and when i caught a glance at him over my aunts shoulder. a moment afterwards, he was as fawning and as humble as ever.

well, i am sure, he said. this is indeed an unexpected pleasure to have, as i may say, all friends round st. pauls at once, is a treat unlooked for mr. copperfield, i hope i see you well, and  if i may umbly express myself so  friendly towards them as is ever your friends, whether or not. mrs. copperfield, sir, i hope shes getting on. we have been made quite uneasy by the poor accounts we have had of her state, lately, i do assure you.

i felt ashamed to let him take my hand, but i did not know yet what else to do.

things are changed in this office, miss trotwood, since i was an umble clerk, and held your pony aint they said uriah, with his sickliest smile. but i am not changed, miss trotwood.

well, sir, returned my aunt, to tell you the truth, i think you are pretty constant to the promise of your youth if thats any satisfaction to you.

thank you, miss trotwood, said uriah, writhing in his ungainly manner, for your good opinion micawber, tell em to let miss agnes know  and mother. mother will be quite in a state, when she sees the present company said uriah, setting chairs.

you are not busy, mr. heep said traddles, whose eye the cunning red eye accidentally caught, as it at once scrutinized and evaded us.

no, mr. traddles, replied uriah, resuming his official seat, and squeezing his bony hands, laid palm to palm between his bony knees.

not so much so as i could wish. but lawyers, sharks, and leeches, are not easily satisfied, you know not but what myself and micawber have our hands pretty full, in general, on account of mr.

wickfields being hardly fit for any occupation, sir. but its a pleasure as well as a duty, i am sure, to work for him. youve not been intimate with mr. wickfield, i think, mr. traddles i believe ive only had the honour of seeing you once myself

no, i have not been intimate with mr. wickfield, returned traddles or i might perhaps have waited on you long ago, mr.

heep.

there was something in the tone of this reply, which made uriah look at the speaker again, with a very sinister and suspicious expression. but, seeing only traddles, with his goodnatured face, simple manner, and hair on end, he dismissed it as he replied, with a jerk of his whole body, but especially his throat i am sorry for that, mr. traddles. you would have admired him as much as we all do. his little failings would only have endeared him to you the more. but if you would like to hear my fellowpartner eloquently spoken of, i should refer you to copperfield. the family is a subject hes very strong upon, if you never heard him.

i was prevented from disclaiming the compliment if i should have done so, in any case, by the entrance of agnes, now ushered in by mr. micawber. she was not quite so selfpossessed as usual, i thought and had evidently undergone anxiety and fatigue. but her earnest cordiality, and her quiet beauty, shone with the gentler lustre for it.

i saw uriah watch her while she greeted us and he reminded me of an ugly and rebellious genie watching a good spirit. in the meanwhile, some slight sign passed between mr. micawber and traddles and traddles, unobserved except by me, went out.

dont wait, micawber, said uriah.

mr. micawber, with his hand upon the ruler in his breast, stood erect before the door, most unmistakably contemplating one of his fellowmen, and that man his employer.

what are you waiting for said uriah. micawber did you hear me tell you not to wait

yes replied the immovable mr. micawber.

then why do you wait said uriah.

because i  in short, choose, replied mr. micawber, with a burst.

uriahs cheeks lost colour, and an unwholesome paleness, still faintly tinged by his pervading red, overspread them. he looked at mr. micawber attentively, with his whole face breathing short and quick in every feature.

you are a dissipated fellow, as all the world knows, he said, with an effort at a smile, and i am afraid youll oblige me to get rid of you. go along ill talk to you presently.

if there is a scoundrel on this earth, said mr. micawber, suddenly breaking out again with the utmost vehemence, with whom i have already talked too much, that scoundrels name is  heep

uriah fell back, as if he had been struck or stung. looking slowly round upon us with the darkest and wickedest expression that his face could wear, he said, in a lower voice oho this is a conspiracy you have met here by appointment you are playing booty with my clerk, are you, copperfield now, take care. youll make nothing of this. we understand each other, you and me. theres no love between us. you were always a puppy with a proud stomach, from your first coming here and you envy me my rise, do you none of your plots against me ill counterplot you

micawber, you be off. ill talk to you presently.

mr. micawber, said i, there is a sudden change in this fellow. in more respects than the extraordinary one of his speaking the truth in one particular, which assures me that he is brought to bay. deal with him as he deserves

you are a precious set of people, aint you said uriah, in the same low voice, and breaking out into a clammy heat, which he wiped from his forehead, with his long lean hand, to buy over my clerk, who is the very scum of society,  as you yourself were, copperfield, you know it, before anyone had charity on you,  to defame me with his lies miss trotwood, you had better stop this or ill stop your husband shorter than will be pleasant to you. i wont know your story professionally, for nothing, old lady miss wickfield, if you have any love for your father, you had better not join that gang. ill ruin him, if you do. now, come i have got some of you under the harrow. think twice, before it goes over you. think twice, you, micawber, if you dont want to be crushed.

i recommend you to take yourself off, and be talked to presently, you fool while theres time to retreat. wheres mother he said, suddenly appearing to notice, with alarm, the absence of traddles, and pulling down the bellrope. fine doings in a persons own house

mrs. heep is here, sir, said traddles, returning with that worthy mother of a worthy son. i have taken the liberty of making myself known to her.

who are you to make yourself known retorted uriah. and what do you want here

i am the agent and friend of mr. wickfield, sir, said traddles, in a composed and businesslike way. and i have a power of attorney from him in my pocket, to act for him in all matters.

the old ass has drunk himself into a state of dotage, said uriah, turning uglier than before, and it has been got from him by fraud

something has been got from him by fraud, i know, returned traddles quietly and so do you, mr. heep. we will refer that question, if you please, to mr. micawber.

ury  mrs. heep began, with an anxious gesture.

you hold your tongue, mother, he returned least said, soonest mended.

but, my ury 

will you hold your tongue, mother, and leave it to me

though i had long known that his servility was false, and all his pretences knavish and hollow, i had had no adequate conception of the extent of his hypocrisy, until i now saw him with his mask off.

the suddenness with which he dropped it, when he perceived that it was useless to him the malice, insolence, and hatred, he revealed the leer with which he exulted, even at this moment, in the evil he had done  all this time being desperate too, and at his wits end for the means of getting the better of us  though perfectly consistent with the experience i had of him, at first took even me by surprise, who had known him so long, and disliked him so heartily.

i say nothing of the look he conferred on me, as he stood eyeing us, one after another for i had always understood that he hated me, and i remembered the marks of my hand upon his cheek. but when his eyes passed on to agnes, and i saw the rage with which he felt his power over her slipping away, and the exhibition, in their disappointment, of the odious passions that had led him to aspire to one whose virtues he could never appreciate or care for, i was shocked by the mere thought of her having lived, an hour, within sight of such a man.

after some rubbing of the lower part of his face, and some looking at us with those bad eyes, over his grisly fingers, he made one more address to me, half whining, and half abusive.

you think it justifiable, do you, copperfield, you who pride yourself so much on your honour and all the rest of it, to sneak about my place, eavesdropping with my clerk if it had been me, i shouldnt have wondered for i dont make myself out a gentleman though i never was in the streets either, as you were, according to micawber, but being you  and youre not afraid of doing this, either you dont think at all of what i shall do, in return or of getting yourself into trouble for conspiracy and so forth very well. we shall see mr. whatsyourname, you were going to refer some question to micawber. theres your referee. why dont you make him speak he has learnt his lesson, i see.

seeing that what he said had no effect on me or any of us, he sat on the edge of his table with his hands in his pockets, and one of his splay feet twisted round the other leg, waiting doggedly for what might follow.

mr. micawber, whose impetuosity i had restrained thus far with the greatest difficulty, and who had repeatedly interposed with the first syllable of scoundrel without getting to the second, now burst forward, drew the ruler from his breast apparently as a defensive weapon, and produced from his pocket a foolscap document, folded in the form of a large letter. opening this packet, with his old flourish, and glancing at the contents, as if he cherished an artistic admiration of their style of composition, he began to read as follows


dear miss trotwood and gentlemen 

bless and save the man exclaimed my aunt in a low voice. hed write letters by the ream, if it was a capital offence

mr. micawber, without hearing her, went on.

in appearing before you to denounce probably the most consummate villain that has ever existed, mr. micawber, without looking off the letter, pointed the ruler, like a ghostly truncheon, at uriah heep, i ask no consideration for myself. the victim, from my cradle, of pecuniary liabilities to which i have been unable to respond, i have ever been the sport and toy of debasing circumstances. ignominy, want, despair, and madness, have, collectively or separately, been the attendants of my career.

the relish with which mr. micawber described himself as a prey to these dismal calamities, was only to be equalled by the emphasis with which he read his letter and the kind of homage he rendered to it with a roll of his head, when he thought he had hit a sentence very hard indeed.

in an accumulation of ignominy, want, despair, and madness, i entered the office  or, as our lively neighbour the gaul would term it, the bureau  of the firm, nominally conducted under the appellation of wickfield and  heep, but in reality, wielded by  heep alone. heep, and only heep, is the mainspring of that machine. heep, and only heep, is the forger and the cheat.

uriah, more blue than white at these words, made a dart at the letter, as if to tear it in pieces. mr. micawber, with a perfect miracle of dexterity or luck, caught his advancing knuckles with the ruler, and disabled his right hand. it dropped at the wrist, as if it were broken. the blow sounded as if it had fallen on wood.

the devil take you said uriah, writhing in a new way with pain.

ill be even with you.

approach me again, you  you  you heep of infamy, gasped mr.

micawber, and if your head is human, ill break it. come on, come on

i think i never saw anything more ridiculous  i was sensible of it, even at the time  than mr. micawber making broadsword guards with the ruler, and crying, come on while traddles and i pushed him back into a corner, from which, as often as we got him into it, he persisted in emerging again.

his enemy, muttering to himself, after wringing his wounded hand for sometime, slowly drew off his neckkerchief and bound it up then held it in his other hand, and sat upon his table with his sullen face looking down.

mr. micawber, when he was sufficiently cool, proceeded with his letter.

the stipendiary emoluments in consideration of which i entered into the service of  heep, always pausing before that word and uttering it with astonishing vigour, were not defined, beyond the pittance of twentytwo shillings and six per week. the rest was left contingent on the value of my professional exertions in other and more expressive words, on the baseness of my nature, the cupidity of my motives, the poverty of my family, the general moral or rather immoral resemblance between myself and  heep. need i say, that it soon became necessary for me to solicit from  heep  pecuniary advances towards the support of mrs. micawber, and our blighted but rising family need i say that this necessity had been foreseen by  heep that those advances were secured by i.o.u.s and other similar acknowledgements, known to the legal institutions of this country and that i thus became immeshed in the web he had spun for my reception

mr. micawbers enjoyment of his epistolary powers, in describing this unfortunate state of things, really seemed to outweigh any pain or anxiety that the reality could have caused him. he read on then it was that  heep  began to favour me with just so much of his confidence, as was necessary to the discharge of his infernal business. then it was that i began, if i may so shakespearianly express myself, to dwindle, peak, and pine. i found that my services were constantly called into requisition for the falsification of business, and the mystification of an individual whom i will designate as mr. w. that mr. w. was imposed upon, kept in ignorance, and deluded, in every possible way yet, that all this while, the ruffian  heep  was professing unbounded gratitude to, and unbounded friendship for, that muchabused gentleman. this was bad enough but, as the philosophic dane observes, with that universal applicability which distinguishes the illustrious ornament of the elizabethan era, worse remains behind

mr. micawber was so very much struck by this happy rounding off with a quotation, that he indulged himself, and us, with a second reading of the sentence, under pretence of having lost his place.

it is not my intention, he continued reading on, to enter on a detailed list, within the compass of the present epistle though it is ready elsewhere, of the various malpractices of a minor nature, affecting the individual whom i have denominated mr. w., to which i have been a tacitly consenting party. my object, when the contest within myself between stipend and no stipend, baker and no baker, existence and nonexistence, ceased, was to take advantage of my opportunities to discover and expose the major malpractices committed, to that gentlemans grievous wrong and injury, by  heep. stimulated by the silent monitor within, and by a no less touching and appealing monitor without  to whom i will briefly refer as miss w.  i entered on a not unlaborious task of clandestine investigation, protracted  now, to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief, over a period exceeding twelve calendar months.

he read this passage as if it were from an act of parliament and appeared majestically refreshed by the sound of the words.

my charges against  heep, he read on, glancing at him, and drawing the ruler into a convenient position under his left arm, in case of need, are as follows.

we all held our breath, i think. i am sure uriah held his.

first, said mr. micawber, when mr. w.s faculties and memory for business became, through causes into which it is not necessary or expedient for me to enter, weakened and confused,  heep  designedly perplexed and complicated the whole of the official transactions. when mr. w. was least fit to enter on business,  heep was always at hand to force him to enter on it. he obtained mr. w.s signature under such circumstances to documents of importance, representing them to be other documents of no importance. he induced mr. w. to empower him to draw out, thus, one particular sum of trustmoney, amounting to twelve six fourteen, two and nine, and employed it to meet pretended business charges and deficiencies which were either already provided for, or had never really existed. he gave this proceeding, throughout, the appearance of having originated in mr. w.s own dishonest intention, and of having been accomplished by mr. w.s own dishonest act and has used it, ever since, to torture and constrain him.

you shall prove this, you copperfield said uriah, with a threatening shake of the head. all in good time

ask  heep  mr. traddles, who lived in his house after him, said mr. micawber, breaking off from the letter will you

the fool himself and lives there now, said uriah, disdainfully.

ask  heep  if he ever kept a pocketbook in that house, said mr. micawber will you

i saw uriahs lank hand stop, involuntarily, in the scraping of his chin.

or ask him, said mr. micawber,if he ever burnt one there. if he says yes, and asks you where the ashes are, refer him to wilkins micawber, and he will hear of something not at all to his advantage

the triumphant flourish with which mr. micawber delivered himself of these words, had a powerful effect in alarming the mother who cried out, in much agitation ury, ury be umble, and make terms, my dear

mother he retorted, will you keep quiet youre in a fright, and dont know what you say or mean. umble he repeated, looking at me, with a snarl ive umbled some of em for a pretty long time back, umble as i was

mr. micawber, genteelly adjusting his chin in his cravat, presently proceeded with his composition.

second. heep has, on several occasions, to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief 

but that wont do, muttered uriah, relieved. mother, you keep quiet.

we will endeavour to provide something that will do, and do for you finally, sir, very shortly, replied mr. micawber.

second. heep has, on several occasions, to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief, systematically forged, to various entries, books, and documents, the signature of mr. w. and has distinctly done so in one instance, capable of proof by me. to wit, in manner following, that is to say

again, mr. micawber had a relish in this formal piling up of words, which, however ludicrously displayed in his case, was, i must say, not at all peculiar to him. i have observed it, in the course of my life, in numbers of men. it seems to me to be a general rule.

in the taking of legal oaths, for instance, deponents seem to enjoy themselves mightily when they come to several good words in succession, for the expression of one idea as, that they utterly detest, abominate, and abjure, or so forth and the old anathemas were made relishing on the same principle. we talk about the tyranny of words, but we like to tyrannize over them too we are fond of having a large superfluous establishment of words to wait upon us on great occasions we think it looks important, and sounds well. as we are not particular about the meaning of our liveries on state occasions, if they be but fine and numerous enough, so, the meaning or necessity of our words is a secondary consideration, if there be but a great parade of them. and as individuals get into trouble by making too great a show of liveries, or as slaves when they are too numerous rise against their masters, so i think i could mention a nation that has got into many great difficulties, and will get into many greater, from maintaining too large a retinue of words.

mr. micawber read on, almost smacking his lips to wit, in manner following, that is to say. mr. w. being infirm, and it being within the bounds of probability that his decease might lead to some discoveries, and to the downfall of  heeps  power over the w. family,  as i, wilkins micawber, the undersigned, assume  unless the filial affection of his daughter could be secretly influenced from allowing any investigation of the partnership affairs to be ever made, the said  heep  deemed it expedient to have a bond ready by him, as from mr. w., for the beforementioned sum of twelve six fourteen, two and nine, with interest, stated therein to have been advanced by  heep  to mr.

w. to save mr. w. from dishonour though really the sum was never advanced by him, and has long been replaced. the signatures to this instrument purporting to be executed by mr. w. and attested by wilkins micawber, are forgeries by  heep. i have, in my possession, in his hand and pocketbook, several similar imitations of mr. w.s signature, here and there defaced by fire, but legible to anyone. i never attested any such document. and i have the document itself, in my possession.

uriah heep, with a start, took out of his pocket a bunch of keys, and opened a certain drawer then, suddenly bethought himself of what he was about, and turned again towards us, without looking in it.

and i have the document, mr. micawber read again, looking about as if it were the text of a sermon, in my possession,  that is to say, i had, early this morning, when this was written, but have since relinquished it to mr. traddles.

it is quite true, assented traddles.

ury, ury cried the mother, be umble and make terms. i know my son will be umble, gentlemen, if youll give him time to think.

mr. copperfield, im sure you know that he was always very umble, sir

it was singular to see how the mother still held to the old trick, when the son had abandoned it as useless.

mother, he said, with an impatient bite at the handkerchief in which his hand was wrapped, you had better take and fire a loaded gun at me.

but i love you, ury, cried mrs. heep. and i have no doubt she did or that he loved her, however strange it may appear though, to be sure, they were a congenial couple. and i cant bear to hear you provoking the gentlemen, and endangering of yourself more.

i told the gentleman at first, when he told me upstairs it was come to light, that i would answer for your being umble, and making amends. oh, see how umble i am, gentlemen, and dont mind him

why, theres copperfield, mother, he angrily retorted, pointing his lean finger at me, against whom all his animosity was levelled, as the prime mover in the discovery and i did not undeceive him theres copperfield, would have given you a hundred pound to say less than youve blurted out

i cant help it, ury, cried his mother. i cant see you running into danger, through carrying your head so high. better be umble, as you always was.

he remained for a little, biting the handkerchief, and then said to me with a scowl what more have you got to bring forward if anything, go on with it. what do you look at me for

mr. micawber promptly resumed his letter, glad to revert to a performance with which he was so highly satisfied.

third. and last. i am now in a condition to show, by  heeps  false books, and  heeps  real memoranda, beginning with the partially destroyed pocketbook which i was unable to comprehend, at the time of its accidental discovery by mrs. micawber, on our taking possession of our present abode, in the locker or bin devoted to the reception of the ashes calcined on our domestic hearth, that the weaknesses, the faults, the very virtues, the parental affections, and the sense of honour, of the unhappy mr. w. have been for years acted on by, and warped to the base purposes of  heep. that mr. w. has been for years deluded and plundered, in every conceivable manner, to the pecuniary aggrandisement of the avaricious, false, and grasping  heep. that the engrossing object of heep  was, next to gain, to subdue mr. and miss w. of his ulterior views in reference to the latter i say nothing entirely to himself. that his last act, completed but a few months since, was to induce mr. w. to execute a relinquishment of his share in the partnership, and even a bill of sale on the very furniture of his house, in consideration of a certain annuity, to be well and truly paid by  heep  on the four common quarterdays in each and every year. that these meshes beginning with alarming and falsified accounts of the estate of which mr. w. is the receiver, at a period when mr. w. had launched into imprudent and illjudged speculations, and may not have had the money, for which he was morally and legally responsible, in hand going on with pretended borrowings of money at enormous interest, really coming from  heep  and by  heep  fraudulently obtained or withheld from mr. w. himself, on pretence of such speculations or otherwise perpetuated by a miscellaneous catalogue of unscrupulous chicaneries  gradually thickened, until the unhappy mr. w. could see no world beyond. bankrupt, as he believed, alike in circumstances, in all other hope, and in honour, his sole reliance was upon the monster in the garb of man,  mr. micawber made a good deal of this, as a new turn of expression,  who, by making himself necessary to him, had achieved his destruction. all this i undertake to show.

probably much more

i whispered a few words to agnes, who was weeping, half joyfully, half sorrowfully, at my side and there was a movement among us, as if mr. micawber had finished. he said, with exceeding gravity, pardon me, and proceeded, with a mixture of the lowest spirits and the most intense enjoyment, to the peroration of his letter.

i have now concluded. it merely remains for me to substantiate these accusations and then, with my illstarred family, to disappear from the landscape on which we appear to be an encumbrance. that is soon done. it may be reasonably inferred that our baby will first expire of inanition, as being the frailest member of our circle and that our twins will follow next in order.

so be it for myself, my canterbury pilgrimage has done much imprisonment on civil process, and want, will soon do more. i trust that the labour and hazard of an investigation  of which the smallest results have been slowly pieced together, in the pressure of arduous avocations, under grinding penurious apprehensions, at rise of morn, at dewy eve, in the shadows of night, under the watchful eye of one whom it were superfluous to call demon  combined with the struggle of parental poverty to turn it, when completed, to the right account, may be as the sprinkling of a few drops of sweet water on my funeral pyre. i ask no more. let it be, in justice, merely said of me, as of a gallant and eminent naval hero, with whom i have no pretensions to cope, that what i have done, i did, in despite of mercenary and selfish objects, for england, home, and beauty.

remaining always, ampc. ampc., wilkins micawber.


much affected, but still intensely enjoying himself, mr. micawber folded up his letter, and handed it with a bow to my aunt, as something she might like to keep.

there was, as i had noticed on my first visit long ago, an iron safe in the room. the key was in it. a hasty suspicion seemed to strike uriah and, with a glance at mr. micawber, he went to it, and threw the doors clanking open. it was empty.

where are the books he cried, with a frightful face. some thief has stolen the books

mr. micawber tapped himself with the ruler. i did, when i got the key from you as usual  but a little earlier  and opened it this morning.

dont be uneasy, said traddles. they have come into my possession. i will take care of them, under the authority i mentioned.

you receive stolen goods, do you cried uriah.

under such circumstances, answered traddles, yes.

what was my astonishment when i beheld my aunt, who had been profoundly quiet and attentive, make a dart at uriah heep, and seize him by the collar with both hands you know what i want said my aunt.

a straitwaistcoat, said he.

no. my property returned my aunt. agnes, my dear, as long as i believed it had been really made away with by your father, i wouldnt  and, my dear, i didnt, even to trot, as he knows  breathe a syllable of its having been placed here for investment.

but, now i know this fellows answerable for it, and ill have it

trot, come and take it away from him

whether my aunt supposed, for the moment, that he kept her property in his neckkerchief, i am sure i dont know but she certainly pulled at it as if she thought so. i hastened to put myself between them, and to assure her that we would all take care that he should make the utmost restitution of everything he had wrongly got. this, and a few moments reflection, pacified her but she was not at all disconcerted by what she had done though i cannot say as much for her bonnet and resumed her seat composedly.

during the last few minutes, mrs. heep had been clamouring to her son to be umble and had been going down on her knees to all of us in succession, and making the wildest promises. her son sat her down in his chair and, standing sulkily by her, holding her arm with his hand, but not rudely, said to me, with a ferocious look what do you want done

i will tell you what must be done, said traddles.

has that copperfield no tongue muttered uriah, i would do a good deal for you if you could tell me, without lying, that somebody had cut it out.

my uriah means to be umble cried his mother. dont mind what he says, good gentlemen

what must be done, said traddles, is this. first, the deed of relinquishment, that we have heard of, must be given over to me now  here.

suppose i havent got it, he interrupted.

but you have, said traddles therefore, you know, we wont suppose so. and i cannot help avowing that this was the first occasion on which i really did justice to the clear head, and the plain, patient, practical good sense, of my old schoolfellow.

then, said traddles, you must prepare to disgorge all that your rapacity has become possessed of, and to make restoration to the last farthing. all the partnership books and papers must remain in our possession all your books and papers all money accounts and securities, of both kinds. in short, everything here.

must it i dont know that, said uriah. i must have time to think about that.

certainly, replied traddles but, in the meanwhile, and until everything is done to our satisfaction, we shall maintain possession of these things and beg you  in short, compel you  to keep to your own room, and hold no communication with anyone.

i wont do it said uriah, with an oath.

maidstone jail is a safer place of detention, observed traddles and though the law may be longer in righting us, and may not be able to right us so completely as you can, there is no doubt of its punishing you. dear me, you know that quite as well as i

copperfield, will you go round to the guildhall, and bring a couple of officers

here, mrs. heep broke out again, crying on her knees to agnes to interfere in their behalf, exclaiming that he was very humble, and it was all true, and if he didnt do what we wanted, she would, and much more to the same purpose being half frantic with fears for her darling. to inquire what he might have done, if he had had any boldness, would be like inquiring what a mongrel cur might do, if it had the spirit of a tiger. he was a coward, from head to foot and showed his dastardly nature through his sullenness and mortification, as much as at any time of his mean life.

stop he growled to me and wiped his hot face with his hand.

mother, hold your noise. well let em have that deed. go and fetch it

do you help her, mr. dick, said traddles, if you please.

proud of his commission, and understanding it, mr. dick accompanied her as a shepherds dog might accompany a sheep. but, mrs. heep gave him little trouble for she not only returned with the deed, but with the box in which it was, where we found a bankers book and some other papers that were afterwards serviceable.

good said traddles, when this was brought. now, mr. heep, you can retire to think particularly observing, if you please, that i declare to you, on the part of all present, that there is only one thing to be done that it is what i have explained and that it must be done without delay.

uriah, without lifting his eyes from the ground, shuffled across the room with his hand to his chin, and pausing at the door, said copperfield, i have always hated you. youve always been an upstart, and youve always been against me.

as i think i told you once before, said i, it is you who have been, in your greed and cunning, against all the world. it may be profitable to you to reflect, in future, that there never were greed and cunning in the world yet, that did not do too much, and overreach themselves. it is as certain as death.

or as certain as they used to teach at school the same school where i picked up so much umbleness, from nine oclock to eleven, that labour was a curse and from eleven oclock to one, that it was a blessing and a cheerfulness, and a dignity, and i dont know what all, eh said he with a sneer. you preach, about as consistent as they did. wont umbleness go down i shouldnt have got round my gentleman fellowpartner without it, i think.  micawber, you old bully, ill pay you

mr. micawber, supremely defiant of him and his extended finger, and making a great deal of his chest until he had slunk out at the door, then addressed himself to me, and proffered me the satisfaction of witnessing the reestablishment of mutual confidence between himself and mrs. micawber. after which, he invited the company generally to the contemplation of that affecting spectacle.

the veil that has long been interposed between mrs. micawber and myself, is now withdrawn, said mr. micawber and my children and the author of their being can once more come in contact on equal terms.

as we were all very grateful to him, and all desirous to show that we were, as well as the hurry and disorder of our spirits would permit, i dare say we should all have gone, but that it was necessary for agnes to return to her father, as yet unable to bear more than the dawn of hope and for someone else to hold uriah in safe keeping. so, traddles remained for the latter purpose, to be presently relieved by mr. dick and mr. dick, my aunt, and i, went home with mr. micawber. as i parted hurriedly from the dear girl to whom i owed so much, and thought from what she had been saved, perhaps, that morning  her better resolution notwithstanding  i felt devoutly thankful for the miseries of my younger days which had brought me to the knowledge of mr. micawber.

his house was not far off and as the street door opened into the sittingroom, and he bolted in with a precipitation quite his own, we found ourselves at once in the bosom of the family. mr.

micawber exclaiming, emma my life rushed into mrs. micawbers arms. mrs. micawber shrieked, and folded mr. micawber in her embrace. miss micawber, nursing the unconscious stranger of mrs.

micawbers last letter to me, was sensibly affected. the stranger leaped. the twins testified their joy by several inconvenient but innocent demonstrations. master micawber, whose disposition appeared to have been soured by early disappointment, and whose aspect had become morose, yielded to his better feelings, and blubbered.

emma said mr. micawber. the cloud is past from my mind.

mutual confidence, so long preserved between us once, is restored, to know no further interruption. now, welcome poverty cried mr.

micawber, shedding tears. welcome misery, welcome houselessness, welcome hunger, rags, tempest, and beggary mutual confidence will sustain us to the end

with these expressions, mr. micawber placed mrs. micawber in a chair, and embraced the family all round welcoming a variety of bleak prospects, which appeared, to the best of my judgement, to be anything but welcome to them and calling upon them to come out into canterbury and sing a chorus, as nothing else was left for their support.

but mrs. micawber having, in the strength of her emotions, fainted away, the first thing to be done, even before the chorus could be considered complete, was to recover her. this my aunt and mr.

micawber did and then my aunt was introduced, and mrs. micawber recognized me.

excuse me, dear mr. copperfield, said the poor lady, giving me her hand, but i am not strong and the removal of the late misunderstanding between mr. micawber and myself was at first too much for me.

is this all your family, maam said my aunt.

there are no more at present, returned mrs. micawber.

good gracious, i didnt mean that, maam, said my aunt. i mean, are all these yours

madam, replied mr. micawber, it is a true bill.

and that eldest young gentleman, now, said my aunt, musing, what has he been brought up to

it was my hope when i came here, said mr. micawber, to have got wilkins into the church or perhaps i shall express my meaning more strictly, if i say the choir. but there was no vacancy for a tenor in the venerable pile for which this city is so justly eminent and he has  in short, he has contracted a habit of singing in publichouses, rather than in sacred edifices.

but he means well, said mrs. micawber, tenderly.

i dare say, my love, rejoined mr. micawber, that he means particularly well but i have not yet found that he carries out his meaning, in any given direction whatsoever.

master micawbers moroseness of aspect returned upon him again, and he demanded, with some temper, what he was to do whether he had been born a carpenter, or a coachpainter, any more than he had been born a bird whether he could go into the next street, and open a chemists shop whether he could rush to the next assizes, and proclaim himself a lawyer whether he could come out by force at the opera, and succeed by violence whether he could do anything, without being brought up to something

my aunt mused a little while, and then said mr. micawber, i wonder you have never turned your thoughts to emigration.

madam, returned mr. micawber, it was the dream of my youth, and the fallacious aspiration of my riper years. i am thoroughly persuaded, by the by, that he had never thought of it in his life.

aye said my aunt, with a glance at me. why, what a thing it would be for yourselves and your family, mr. and mrs. micawber, if you were to emigrate now.

capital, madam, capital, urged mr. micawber, gloomily.

that is the principal, i may say the only difficulty, my dear mr.

copperfield, assented his wife.

capital cried my aunt. but you are doing us a great service  have done us a great service, i may say, for surely much will come out of the fire  and what could we do for you, that would be half so good as to find the capital

i could not receive it as a gift, said mr. micawber, full of fire and animation, but if a sufficient sum could be advanced, say at five per cent interest, per annum, upon my personal liability  say my notes of hand, at twelve, eighteen, and twentyfour months, respectively, to allow time for something to turn up 

could be can be and shall be, on your own terms, returned my aunt, if you say the word. think of this now, both of you. here are some people david knows, going out to australia shortly. if you decide to go, why shouldnt you go in the same ship you may help each other. think of this now, mr. and mrs. micawber. take your time, and weigh it well.

there is but one question, my dear maam, i could wish to ask, said mrs. micawber. the climate, i believe, is healthy

finest in the world said my aunt.

just so, returned mrs. micawber. then my question arises. now, are the circumstances of the country such, that a man of mr.

micawbers abilities would have a fair chance of rising in the social scale i will not say, at present, might he aspire to be governor, or anything of that sort but would there be a reasonable opening for his talents to develop themselves  that would be amply sufficient  and find their own expansion

no better opening anywhere, said my aunt, for a man who conducts himself well, and is industrious.

for a man who conducts himself well, repeated mrs. micawber, with her clearest business manner, and is industrious. precisely. it is evident to me that australia is the legitimate sphere of action for mr. micawber

i entertain the conviction, my dear madam, said mr. micawber, that it is, under existing circumstances, the land, the only land, for myself and family and that something of an extraordinary nature will turn up on that shore. it is no distance  comparatively speaking and though consideration is due to the kindness of your proposal, i assure you that is a mere matter of form.

shall i ever forget how, in a moment, he was the most sanguine of men, looking on to fortune or how mrs. micawber presently discoursed about the habits of the kangaroo shall i ever recall that street of canterbury on a marketday, without recalling him, as he walked back with us expressing, in the hardy roving manner he assumed, the unsettled habits of a temporary sojourner in the land and looking at the bullocks, as they came by, with the eye of an australian farmer



chapter 

another retrospect

i must pause yet once again. o, my childwife, there is a figure in the moving crowd before my memory, quiet and still, saying in its innocent love and childish beauty, stop to think of me  turn to look upon the little blossom, as it flutters to the ground

i do. all else grows dim, and fades away. i am again with dora, in our cottage. i do not know how long she has been ill. i am so used to it in feeling, that i cannot count the time. it is not really long, in weeks or months but, in my usage and experience, it is a weary, weary while.

they have left off telling me to wait a few days more. i have begun to fear, remotely, that the day may never shine, when i shall see my childwife running in the sunlight with her old friend jip.

he is, as it were suddenly, grown very old. it may be that he misses in his mistress, something that enlivened him and made him younger but he mopes, and his sight is weak, and his limbs are feeble, and my aunt is sorry that he objects to her no more, but creeps near her as he lies on doras bed  she sitting at the bedside  and mildly licks her hand.

dora lies smiling on us, and is beautiful, and utters no hasty or complaining word. she says that we are very good to her that her dear old careful boy is tiring himself out, she knows that my aunt has no sleep, yet is always wakeful, active, and kind. sometimes, the little birdlike ladies come to see her and then we talk about our weddingday, and all that happy time.

what a strange rest and pause in my life there seems to be  and in all life, within doors and without  when i sit in the quiet, shaded, orderly room, with the blue eyes of my childwife turned towards me, and her little fingers twining round my hand many and many an hour i sit thus but, of all those times, three times come the freshest on my mind.


it is morning and dora, made so trim by my aunts hands, shows me how her pretty hair will curl upon the pillow yet, an how long and bright it is, and how she likes to have it loosely gathered in that net she wears.

not that i am vain of it, now, you mocking boy, she says, when i smile but because you used to say you thought it so beautiful and because, when i first began to think about you, i used to peep in the glass, and wonder whether you would like very much to have a lock of it. oh what a foolish fellow you were, doady, when i gave you one

that was on the day when you were painting the flowers i had given you, dora, and when i told you how much in love i was.

ah but i didnt like to tell you, says dora, then, how i had cried over them, because i believed you really liked me when i can run about again as i used to do, doady, let us go and see those places where we were such a silly couple, shall we and take some of the old walks and not forget poor papa

yes, we will, and have some happy days. so you must make haste to get well, my dear.

oh, i shall soon do that i am so much better, you dont know


it is evening and i sit in the same chair, by the same bed, with the same face turned towards me. we have been silent, and there is a smile upon her face. i have ceased to carry my light burden up and down stairs now. she lies here all the day.

doady

my dear dora

you wont think what i am going to say, unreasonable, after what you told me, such a little while ago, of mr. wickfields not being well i want to see agnes. very much i want to see her.

i will write to her, my dear.

will you

directly.

what a good, kind boy doady, take me on your arm. indeed, my dear, its not a whim. its not a foolish fancy. i want, very much indeed, to see her

i am certain of it. i have only to tell her so, and she is sure to come.

you are very lonely when you go downstairs, now dora whispers, with her arm about my neck.

how can i be otherwise, my own love, when i see your empty chair

my empty chair she clings to me for a little while, in silence.

and you really miss me, doady looking up, and brightly smiling.

even poor, giddy, stupid me

my heart, who is there upon earth that i could miss so much

oh, husband i am so glad, yet so sorry creeping closer to me, and folding me in both her arms. she laughs and sobs, and then is quiet, and quite happy.

quite she says. only give agnes my dear love, and tell her that i want very, very, much to see her and i have nothing left to wish for.

except to get well again, dora.

ah, doady sometimes i think  you know i always was a silly little thing  that that will never be

dont say so, dora dearest love, dont think so

i wont, if i can help it, doady. but i am very happy though my dear boy is so lonely by himself, before his childwifes empty chair


it is night and i am with her still. agnes has arrived has been among us for a whole day and an evening. she, my aunt, and i, have sat with dora since the morning, all together. we have not talked much, but dora has been perfectly contented and cheerful. we are now alone.

do i know, now, that my childwife will soon leave me they have told me so they have told me nothing new to my thoughts but i am far from sure that i have taken that truth to heart. i cannot master it. i have withdrawn by myself, many times today, to weep.

i have remembered who wept for a parting between the living and the dead. i have bethought me of all that gracious and compassionate history. i have tried to resign myself, and to console myself and that, i hope, i may have done imperfectly but what i cannot firmly settle in my mind is, that the end will absolutely come. i hold her hand in mine, i hold her heart in mine, i see her love for me, alive in all its strength. i cannot shut out a pale lingering shadow of belief that she will be spared.

i am going to speak to you, doady. i am going to say something i have often thought of saying, lately. you wont mind with a gentle look.

mind, my darling

because i dont know what you will think, or what you may have thought sometimes. perhaps you have often thought the same.

doady, dear, i am afraid i was too young.

i lay my face upon the pillow by her, and she looks into my eyes, and speaks very softly. gradually, as she goes on, i feel, with a stricken heart, that she is speaking of herself as past.

i am afraid, dear, i was too young. i dont mean in years only, but in experience, and thoughts, and everything. i was such a silly little creature i am afraid it would have been better, if we had only loved each other as a boy and girl, and forgotten it. i have begun to think i was not fit to be a wife.

i try to stay my tears, and to reply, oh, dora, love, as fit as i to be a husband

i dont know, with the old shake of her curls. perhaps but if i had been more fit to be married i might have made you more so, too. besides, you are very clever, and i never was.

we have been very happy, my sweet dora.

i was very happy, very. but, as years went on, my dear boy would have wearied of his childwife. she would have been less and less a companion for him. he would have been more and more sensible of what was wanting in his home. she wouldnt have improved. it is better as it is.

oh, dora, dearest, dearest, do not speak to me so. every word seems a reproach

no, not a syllable she answers, kissing me. oh, my dear, you never deserved it, and i loved you far too well to say a reproachful word to you, in earnest  it was all the merit i had, except being pretty  or you thought me so. is it lonely, downstairs, doady

very very

dont cry is my chair there

in its old place.

oh, how my poor boy cries hush, hush now, make me one promise.

i want to speak to agnes. when you go downstairs, tell agnes so, and send her up to me and while i speak to her, let no one come  not even aunt. i want to speak to agnes by herself. i want to speak to agnes, quite alone.

i promise that she shall, immediately but i cannot leave her, for my grief.

i said that it was better as it is she whispers, as she holds me in her arms. oh, doady, after more years, you never could have loved your childwife better than you do and, after more years, she would so have tried and disappointed you, that you might not have been able to love her half so well i know i was too young and foolish. it is much better as it is

agnes is downstairs, when i go into the parlour and i give her the message. she disappears, leaving me alone with jip.

his chinese house is by the fire and he lies within it, on his bed of flannel, querulously trying to sleep. the bright moon is high and clear. as i look out on the night, my tears fall fast, and my undisciplined heart is chastened heavily  heavily.

i sit down by the fire, thinking with a blind remorse of all those secret feelings i have nourished since my marriage. i think of every little trifle between me and dora, and feel the truth, that trifles make the sum of life. ever rising from the sea of my remembrance, is the image of the dear child as i knew her first, graced by my young love, and by her own, with every fascination wherein such love is rich. would it, indeed, have been better if we had loved each other as a boy and a girl, and forgotten it

undisciplined heart, reply

how the time wears, i know not until i am recalled by my childwifes old companion. more restless than he was, he crawls out of his house, and looks at me, and wanders to the door, and whines to go upstairs.

not tonight, jip not tonight

he comes very slowly back to me, licks my hand, and lifts his dim eyes to my face.

oh, jip it may be, never again

he lies down at my feet, stretches himself out as if to sleep, and with a plaintive cry, is dead.

oh, agnes look, look, here  that face, so full of pity, and of grief, that rain of tears, that awful mute appeal to me, that solemn hand upraised towards heaven agnes

it is over. darkness comes before my eyes and, for a time, all things are blotted out of my remembrance.



chapter 

mr. micawbers transactions

this is not the time at which i am to enter on the state of my mind beneath its load of sorrow. i came to think that the future was walled up before me, that the energy and action of my life were at an end, that i never could find any refuge but in the grave. i came to think so, i say, but not in the first shock of my grief.

it slowly grew to that. if the events i go on to relate, had not thickened around me, in the beginning to confuse, and in the end to augment, my affliction, it is possible though i think not probable, that i might have fallen at once into this condition.

as it was, an interval occurred before i fully knew my own distress an interval, in which i even supposed that its sharpest pangs were past and when my mind could soothe itself by resting on all that was most innocent and beautiful, in the tender story that was closed for ever.

when it was first proposed that i should go abroad, or how it came to be agreed among us that i was to seek the restoration of my peace in change and travel, i do not, even now, distinctly know.

the spirit of agnes so pervaded all we thought, and said, and did, in that time of sorrow, that i assume i may refer the project to her influence. but her influence was so quiet that i know no more.

and now, indeed, i began to think that in my old association of her with the stainedglass window in the church, a prophetic foreshadowing of what she would be to me, in the calamity that was to happen in the fullness of time, had found a way into my mind.

in all that sorrow, from the moment, never to be forgotten, when she stood before me with her upraised hand, she was like a sacred presence in my lonely house. when the angel of death alighted there, my childwife fell asleep  they told me so when i could bear to hear it  on her bosom, with a smile. from my swoon, i first awoke to a consciousness of her compassionate tears, her words of hope and peace, her gentle face bending down as from a purer region nearer heaven, over my undisciplined heart, and softening its pain.

let me go on.

i was to go abroad. that seemed to have been determined among us from the first. the ground now covering all that could perish of my departed wife, i waited only for what mr. micawber called the final pulverization of heep and for the departure of the emigrants.

at the request of traddles, most affectionate and devoted of friends in my trouble, we returned to canterbury i mean my aunt, agnes, and i. we proceeded by appointment straight to mr.

micawbers house where, and at mr. wickfields, my friend had been labouring ever since our explosive meeting. when poor mrs.

micawber saw me come in, in my black clothes, she was sensibly affected. there was a great deal of good in mrs. micawbers heart, which had not been dunned out of it in all those many years.

well, mr. and mrs. micawber, was my aunts first salutation after we were seated. pray, have you thought about that emigration proposal of mine

my dear madam, returned mr. micawber, perhaps i cannot better express the conclusion at which mrs. micawber, your humble servant, and i may add our children, have jointly and severally arrived, than by borrowing the language of an illustrious poet, to reply that our boat is on the shore, and our bark is on the sea.

thats right, said my aunt. i augur all sort of good from your sensible decision.

madam, you do us a great deal of honour, he rejoined. he then referred to a memorandum. with respect to the pecuniary assistance enabling us to launch our frail canoe on the ocean of enterprise, i have reconsidered that important businesspoint and would beg to propose my notes of hand  drawn, it is needless to stipulate, on stamps of the amounts respectively required by the various acts of parliament applying to such securities  at eighteen, twentyfour, and thirty months. the proposition i originally submitted, was twelve, eighteen, and twentyfour but i am apprehensive that such an arrangement might not allow sufficient time for the requisite amount of  something  to turn up. we might not, said mr. micawber, looking round the room as if it represented several hundred acres of highly cultivated land, on the first responsibility becoming due, have been successful in our harvest, or we might not have got our harvest in. labour, i believe, is sometimes difficult to obtain in that portion of our colonial possessions where it will be our lot to combat with the teeming soil.

arrange it in any way you please, sir, said my aunt.

madam, he replied, mrs. micawber and myself are deeply sensible of the very considerate kindness of our friends and patrons. what i wish is, to be perfectly businesslike, and perfectly punctual.

turning over, as we are about to turn over, an entirely new leaf and falling back, as we are now in the act of falling back, for a spring of no common magnitude it is important to my sense of selfrespect, besides being an example to my son, that these arrangements should be concluded as between man and man.

i dont know that mr. micawber attached any meaning to this last phrase i dont know that anybody ever does, or did but he appeared to relish it uncommonly, and repeated, with an impressive cough, as between man and man.

i propose, said mr. micawber, bills  a convenience to the mercantile world, for which, i believe, we are originally indebted to the jews, who appear to me to have had a devilish deal too much to do with them ever since  because they are negotiable. but if a bond, or any other description of security, would be preferred, i should be happy to execute any such instrument. as between man and man.

my aunt observed, that in a case where both parties were willing to agree to anything, she took it for granted there would be no difficulty in settling this point. mr. micawber was of her opinion.

in reference to our domestic preparations, madam, said mr.

micawber, with some pride, for meeting the destiny to which we are now understood to be selfdevoted, i beg to report them. my eldest daughter attends at five every morning in a neighbouring establishment, to acquire the process  if process it may be called  of milking cows. my younger children are instructed to observe, as closely as circumstances will permit, the habits of the pigs and poultry maintained in the poorer parts of this city a pursuit from which they have, on two occasions, been brought home, within an inch of being run over. i have myself directed some attention, during the past week, to the art of baking and my son wilkins has issued forth with a walkingstick and driven cattle, when permitted, by the rugged hirelings who had them in charge, to render any voluntary service in that direction  which i regret to say, for the credit of our nature, was not often he being generally warned, with imprecations, to desist.

all very right indeed, said my aunt, encouragingly. mrs.

micawber has been busy, too, i have no doubt.

my dear madam, returned mrs. micawber, with her businesslike air. i am free to confess that i have not been actively engaged in pursuits immediately connected with cultivation or with stock, though well aware that both will claim my attention on a foreign shore. such opportunities as i have been enabled to alienate from my domestic duties, i have devoted to corresponding at some length with my family. for i own it seems to me, my dear mr.

copperfield, said mrs. micawber, who always fell back on me, i suppose from old habit, to whomsoever else she might address her discourse at starting, that the time is come when the past should be buried in oblivion when my family should take mr. micawber by the hand, and mr. micawber should take my family by the hand when the lion should lie down with the lamb, and my family be on terms with mr. micawber.

i said i thought so too.

this, at least, is the light, my dear mr. copperfield, pursued mrs. micawber, in which i view the subject. when i lived at home with my papa and mama, my papa was accustomed to ask, when any point was under discussion in our limited circle, in what light does my emma view the subject that my papa was too partial, i know still, on such a point as the frigid coldness which has ever subsisted between mr. micawber and my family, i necessarily have formed an opinion, delusive though it may be.

no doubt. of course you have, maam, said my aunt.

precisely so, assented mrs. micawber. now, i may be wrong in my conclusions it is very likely that i am, but my individual impression is, that the gulf between my family and mr. micawber may be traced to an apprehension, on the part of my family, that mr.

micawber would require pecuniary accommodation. i cannot help thinking, said mrs. micawber, with an air of deep sagacity, that there are members of my family who have been apprehensive that mr.

micawber would solicit them for their names.  i do not mean to be conferred in baptism upon our children, but to be inscribed on bills of exchange, and negotiated in the money market.

the look of penetration with which mrs. micawber announced this discovery, as if no one had ever thought of it before, seemed rather to astonish my aunt who abruptly replied, well, maam, upon the whole, i shouldnt wonder if you were right

mr. micawber being now on the eve of casting off the pecuniary shackles that have so long enthralled him, said mrs. micawber, and of commencing a new career in a country where there is sufficient range for his abilities,  which, in my opinion, is exceedingly important mr. micawbers abilities peculiarly requiring space,  it seems to me that my family should signalize the occasion by coming forward. what i could wish to see, would be a meeting between mr. micawber and my family at a festive entertainment, to be given at my familys expense where mr.

micawbers health and prosperity being proposed, by some leading member of my family, mr. micawber might have an opportunity of developing his views.

my dear, said mr. micawber, with some heat, it may be better for me to state distinctly, at once, that if i were to develop my views to that assembled group, they would possibly be found of an offensive nature my impression being that your family are, in the aggregate, impertinent snobs and, in detail, unmitigated ruffians.

micawber, said mrs. micawber, shaking her head, no you have never understood them, and they have never understood you.

mr. micawber coughed.

they have never understood you, micawber, said his wife. they may be incapable of it. if so, that is their misfortune. i can pity their misfortune.

i am extremely sorry, my dear emma, said mr. micawber, relenting, to have been betrayed into any expressions that might, even remotely, have the appearance of being strong expressions. all i would say is, that i can go abroad without your family coming forward to favour me,  in short, with a parting shove of their cold shoulders and that, upon the whole, i would rather leave england with such impetus as i possess, than derive any acceleration of it from that quarter. at the same time, my dear, if they should condescend to reply to your communications  which our joint experience renders most improbable  far be it from me to be a barrier to your wishes.

the matter being thus amicably settled, mr. micawber gave mrs.

micawber his arm, and glancing at the heap of books and papers lying before traddles on the table, said they would leave us to ourselves which they ceremoniously did.

my dear copperfield, said traddles, leaning back in his chair when they were gone, and looking at me with an affection that made his eyes red, and his hair all kinds of shapes, i dont make any excuse for troubling you with business, because i know you are deeply interested in it, and it may divert your thoughts. my dear boy, i hope you are not worn out

i am quite myself, said i, after a pause. we have more cause to think of my aunt than of anyone. you know how much she has done.

surely, surely, answered traddles. who can forget it

but even that is not all, said i. during the last fortnight, some new trouble has vexed her and she has been in and out of london every day. several times she has gone out early, and been absent until evening. last night, traddles, with this journey before her, it was almost midnight before she came home. you know what her consideration for others is. she will not tell me what has happened to distress her.

my aunt, very pale, and with deep lines in her face, sat immovable until i had finished when some stray tears found their way to her cheeks, and she put her hand on mine.

its nothing, trot its nothing. there will be no more of it.

you shall know by and by. now agnes, my dear, let us attend to these affairs.

i must do mr. micawber the justice to say, traddles began, that although he would appear not to have worked to any good account for himself, he is a most untiring man when he works for other people.

i never saw such a fellow. if he always goes on in the same way, he must be, virtually, about two hundred years old, at present.

the heat into which he has been continually putting himself and the distracted and impetuous manner in which he has been diving, day and night, among papers and books to say nothing of the immense number of letters he has written me between this house and mr. wickfields, and often across the table when he has been sitting opposite, and might much more easily have spoken is quite extraordinary.

letters cried my aunt. i believe he dreams in letters

theres mr. dick, too, said traddles, has been doing wonders as soon as he was released from overlooking uriah heep, whom he kept in such charge as i never saw exceeded, he began to devote himself to mr. wickfield. and really his anxiety to be of use in the investigations we have been making, and his real usefulness in extracting, and copying, and fetching, and carrying, have been quite stimulating to us.

dick is a very remarkable man, exclaimed my aunt and i always said he was. trot, you know it.

i am happy to say, miss wickfield, pursued traddles, at once with great delicacy and with great earnestness, that in your absence mr. wickfield has considerably improved. relieved of the incubus that had fastened upon him for so long a time, and of the dreadful apprehensions under which he had lived, he is hardly the same person. at times, even his impaired power of concentrating his memory and attention on particular points of business, has recovered itself very much and he has been able to assist us in making some things clear, that we should have found very difficult indeed, if not hopeless, without him. but what i have to do is to come to results which are short enough not to gossip on all the hopeful circumstances i have observed, or i shall never have done.

his natural manner and agreeable simplicity made it transparent that he said this to put us in good heart, and to enable agnes to hear her father mentioned with greater confidence but it was not the less pleasant for that.

now, let me see, said traddles, looking among the papers on the table. having counted our funds, and reduced to order a great mass of unintentional confusion in the first place, and of wilful confusion and falsification in the second, we take it to be clear that mr. wickfield might now wind up his business, and his agencytrust, and exhibit no deficiency or defalcation whatever.

oh, thank heaven cried agnes, fervently.

but, said traddles, the surplus that would be left as his means of support  and i suppose the house to be sold, even in saying this  would be so small, not exceeding in all probability some hundreds of pounds, that perhaps, miss wickfield, it would be best to consider whether he might not retain his agency of the estate to which he has so long been receiver. his friends might advise him, you know now he is free. you yourself, miss wickfield  copperfield  i 

i have considered it, trotwood, said agnes, looking to me, and i feel that it ought not to be, and must not be even on the recommendation of a friend to whom i am so grateful, and owe so much.

i will not say that i recommend it, observed traddles. i think it right to suggest it. no more.

i am happy to hear you say so, answered agnes, steadily, for it gives me hope, almost assurance, that we think alike. dear mr.

traddles and dear trotwood, papa once free with honour, what could i wish for i have always aspired, if i could have released him from the toils in which he was held, to render back some little portion of the love and care i owe him, and to devote my life to him. it has been, for years, the utmost height of my hopes. to take our future on myself, will be the next great happiness  the next to his release from all trust and responsibility  that i can know.

have you thought how, agnes

often i am not afraid, dear trotwood. i am certain of success.

so many people know me here, and think kindly of me, that i am certain. dont mistrust me. our wants are not many. if i rent the dear old house, and keep a school, i shall be useful and happy.

the calm fervour of her cheerful voice brought back so vividly, first the dear old house itself, and then my solitary home, that my heart was too full for speech. traddles pretended for a little while to be busily looking among the papers.

next, miss trotwood, said traddles, that property of yours.

well, sir, sighed my aunt. all i have got to say about it is, that if its gone, i can bear it and if its not gone, i shall be glad to get it back.

it was originally, i think, eight thousand pounds, consols said traddles.

right replied my aunt.

i cant account for more than five, said traddles, with an air of perplexity.

 thousand, do you mean inquired my aunt, with uncommon composure, or pounds

five thousand pounds, said traddles.

it was all there was, returned my aunt. i sold three, myself.

one, i paid for your articles, trot, my dear and the other two i have by me. when i lost the rest, i thought it wise to say nothing about that sum, but to keep it secretly for a rainy day. i wanted to see how you would come out of the trial, trot and you came out nobly  persevering, selfreliant, selfdenying so did dick.

dont speak to me, for i find my nerves a little shaken

nobody would have thought so, to see her sitting upright, with her arms folded but she had wonderful selfcommand.

then i am delighted to say, cried traddles, beaming with joy, that we have recovered the whole money

dont congratulate me, anybody exclaimed my aunt. how so, sir

you believed it had been misappropriated by mr. wickfield said traddles.

of course i did, said my aunt, and was therefore easily silenced. agnes, not a word

and indeed, said traddles, it was sold, by virtue of the power of management he held from you but i neednt say by whom sold, or on whose actual signature. it was afterwards pretended to mr.

wickfield, by that rascal,  and proved, too, by figures,  that he had possessed himself of the money on general instructions, he said to keep other deficiencies and difficulties from the light.

mr. wickfield, being so weak and helpless in his hands as to pay you, afterwards, several sums of interest on a pretended principal which he knew did not exist, made himself, unhappily, a party to the fraud.

and at last took the blame upon himself, added my aunt and wrote me a mad letter, charging himself with robbery, and wrong unheard of. upon which i paid him a visit early one morning, called for a candle, burnt the letter, and told him if he ever could right me and himself, to do it and if he couldnt, to keep his own counsel for his daughters sake.  if anybody speaks to me, ill leave the house

we all remained quiet agnes covering her face.

well, my dear friend, said my aunt, after a pause, and you have really extorted the money back from him

why, the fact is, returned traddles, mr. micawber had so completely hemmed him in, and was always ready with so many new points if an old one failed, that he could not escape from us. a most remarkable circumstance is, that i really dont think he grasped this sum even so much for the gratification of his avarice, which was inordinate, as in the hatred he felt for copperfield. he said so to me, plainly. he said he would even have spent as much, to baulk or injure copperfield.

ha said my aunt, knitting her brows thoughtfully, and glancing at agnes. and whats become of him

i dont know. he left here, said traddles, with his mother, who had been clamouring, and beseeching, and disclosing, the whole time. they went away by one of the london night coaches, and i know no more about him except that his malevolence to me at parting was audacious. he seemed to consider himself hardly less indebted to me, than to mr. micawber which i consider as i told him quite a compliment.

do you suppose he has any money, traddles i asked.

oh dear, yes, i should think so, he replied, shaking his head, seriously. i should say he must have pocketed a good deal, in one way or other. but, i think you would find, copperfield, if you had an opportunity of observing his course, that money would never keep that man out of mischief. he is such an incarnate hypocrite, that whatever object he pursues, he must pursue crookedly. its his only compensation for the outward restraints he puts upon himself.

always creeping along the ground to some small end or other, he will always magnify every object in the way and consequently will hate and suspect everybody that comes, in the most innocent manner, between him and it. so the crooked courses will become crookeder, at any moment, for the least reason, or for none. its only necessary to consider his history here, said traddles, to know that.

hes a monster of meanness said my aunt.

really i dont know about that, observed traddles thoughtfully.

many people can be very mean, when they give their minds to it.

and now, touching mr. micawber, said my aunt.

well, really, said traddles, cheerfully, i must, once more, give mr. micawber high praise. but for his having been so patient and persevering for so long a time, we never could have hoped to do anything worth speaking of. and i think we ought to consider that mr. micawber did right, for rights sake, when we reflect what terms he might have made with uriah heep himself, for his silence.

i think so too, said i.

now, what would you give him inquired my aunt.

oh before you come to that, said traddles, a little disconcerted, i am afraid i thought it discreet to omit not being able to carry everything before me two points, in making this lawless adjustment  for its perfectly lawless from beginning to end  of a difficult affair. those i.o.u.s, and so forth, which mr. micawber gave him for the advances he had 

well they must be paid, said my aunt.

yes, but i dont know when they may be proceeded on, or where they are, rejoined traddles, opening his eyes and i anticipate, that, between this time and his departure, mr. micawber will be constantly arrested, or taken in execution.

then he must be constantly set free again, and taken out of execution, said my aunt. whats the amount altogether

why, mr. micawber has entered the transactions  he calls them transactions  with great form, in a book, rejoined traddles, smiling and he makes the amount a hundred and three pounds, five.

now, what shall we give him, that sum included said my aunt.

agnes, my dear, you and i can talk about division of it afterwards. what should it be five hundred pounds

upon this, traddles and i both struck in at once. we both recommended a small sum in money, and the payment, without stipulation to mr. micawber, of the uriah claims as they came in.

we proposed that the family should have their passage and their outfit, and a hundred pounds and that mr. micawbers arrangement for the repayment of the advances should be gravely entered into, as it might be wholesome for him to suppose himself under that responsibility. to this, i added the suggestion, that i should give some explanation of his character and history to mr. peggotty, who i knew could be relied on and that to mr. peggotty should be quietly entrusted the discretion of advancing another hundred. i further proposed to interest mr. micawber in mr. peggotty, by confiding so much of mr. peggottys story to him as i might feel justified in relating, or might think expedient and to endeavour to bring each of them to bear upon the other, for the common advantage. we all entered warmly into these views and i may mention at once, that the principals themselves did so, shortly afterwards, with perfect good will and harmony.

seeing that traddles now glanced anxiously at my aunt again, i reminded him of the second and last point to which he had adverted.

you and your aunt will excuse me, copperfield, if i touch upon a painful theme, as i greatly fear i shall, said traddles, hesitating but i think it necessary to bring it to your recollection. on the day of mr. micawbers memorable denunciation a threatening allusion was made by uriah heep to your aunts  husband.

my aunt, retaining her stiff position, and apparent composure, assented with a nod.

perhaps, observed traddles, it was mere purposeless impertinence

no, returned my aunt.

there was  pardon me  really such a person, and at all in his power hinted traddles.

yes, my good friend, said my aunt.

traddles, with a perceptible lengthening of his face, explained that he had not been able to approach this subject that it had shared the fate of mr. micawbers liabilities, in not being comprehended in the terms he had made that we were no longer of any authority with uriah heep and that if he could do us, or any of us, any injury or annoyance, no doubt he would.

my aunt remained quiet until again some stray tears found their way to her cheeks.

you are quite right, she said. it was very thoughtful to mention it.

can i  or copperfield  do anything asked traddles, gently.

nothing, said my aunt. i thank you many times. trot, my dear, a vain threat let us have mr. and mrs. micawber back. and dont any of you speak to me with that she smoothed her dress, and sat, with her upright carriage, looking at the door.

well, mr. and mrs. micawber said my aunt, when they entered.

we have been discussing your emigration, with many apologies to you for keeping you out of the room so long and ill tell you what arrangements we propose.

these she explained to the unbounded satisfaction of the family,  children and all being then present,  and so much to the awakening of mr. micawbers punctual habits in the opening stage of all bill transactions, that he could not be dissuaded from immediately rushing out, in the highest spirits, to buy the stamps for his notes of hand. but, his joy received a sudden check for within five minutes, he returned in the custody of a sheriff s officer, informing us, in a flood of tears, that all was lost. we, being quite prepared for this event, which was of course a proceeding of uriah heeps, soon paid the money and in five minutes more mr.

micawber was seated at the table, filling up the stamps with an expression of perfect joy, which only that congenial employment, or the making of punch, could impart in full completeness to his shining face. to see him at work on the stamps, with the relish of an artist, touching them like pictures, looking at them sideways, taking weighty notes of dates and amounts in his pocketbook, and contemplating them when finished, with a high sense of their precious value, was a sight indeed.

now, the best thing you can do, sir, if youll allow me to advise you, said my aunt, after silently observing him, is to abjure that occupation for evermore.

madam, replied mr. micawber, it is my intention to register such a vow on the virgin page of the future. mrs. micawber will attest it. i trust, said mr. micawber, solemnly, that my son wilkins will ever bear in mind, that he had infinitely better put his fist in the fire, than use it to handle the serpents that have poisoned the lifeblood of his unhappy parent deeply affected, and changed in a moment to the image of despair, mr. micawber regarded the serpents with a look of gloomy abhorrence in which his late admiration of them was not quite subdued, folded them up and put them in his pocket.

this closed the proceedings of the evening. we were weary with sorrow and fatigue, and my aunt and i were to return to london on the morrow. it was arranged that the micawbers should follow us, after effecting a sale of their goods to a broker that mr.

wickfields affairs should be brought to a settlement, with all convenient speed, under the direction of traddles and that agnes should also come to london, pending those arrangements. we passed the night at the old house, which, freed from the presence of the heeps, seemed purged of a disease and i lay in my old room, like a shipwrecked wanderer come home.

we went back next day to my aunts house  not to mine and when she and i sat alone, as of old, before going to bed, she said trot, do you really wish to know what i have had upon my mind lately

indeed i do, aunt. if there ever was a time when i felt unwilling that you should have a sorrow or anxiety which i could not share, it is now.

you have had sorrow enough, child, said my aunt, affectionately, without the addition of my little miseries. i could have no other motive, trot, in keeping anything from you.

i know that well, said i. but tell me now.

would you ride with me a little way tomorrow morning asked my aunt.

of course.

at nine, said she. ill tell you then, my dear.

at nine, accordingly, we went out in a little chariot, and drove to london. we drove a long way through the streets, until we came to one of the large hospitals. standing hard by the building was a plain hearse. the driver recognized my aunt, and, in obedience to a motion of her hand at the window, drove slowly off we following.

you understand it now, trot, said my aunt. he is gone

did he die in the hospital

yes.

she sat immovable beside me but, again i saw the stray tears on her face.

he was there once before, said my aunt presently. he was ailing a long time  a shattered, broken man, these many years. when he knew his state in this last illness, he asked them to send for me.

he was sorry then. very sorry.

you went, i know, aunt.

i went. i was with him a good deal afterwards.

he died the night before we went to canterbury said i.

my aunt nodded. no one can harm him now, she said. it was a vain threat.

we drove away, out of town, to the churchyard at hornsey. better here than in the streets, said my aunt. he was born here.

we alighted and followed the plain coffin to a corner i remember well, where the service was read consigning it to the dust.

sixandthirty years ago, this day, my dear, said my aunt, as we walked back to the chariot, i was married. god forgive us all

we took our seats in silence and so she sat beside me for a long time, holding my hand. at length she suddenly burst into tears, and said he was a finelooking man when i married him, trot  and he was sadly changed

it did not last long. after the relief of tears, she soon became composed, and even cheerful. her nerves were a little shaken, she said, or she would not have given way to it. god forgive us all

so we rode back to her little cottage at highgate, where we found the following short note, which had arrived by that mornings post from mr. micawber


canterbury, friday.

my dear madam, and copperfield, the fair land of promise lately looming on the horizon is again enveloped in impenetrable mists, and for ever withdrawn from the eyes of a drifting wretch whose doom is sealed another writ has been issued in his majestys high court of kings bench at westminster, in another cause of heep v.

micawber, and the defendant in that cause is the prey of the sheriff having legal jurisdiction in this bailiwick.

nows the day, and nows the hour,

see the front of battle lower,

see approach proud edwards power 

chains and slavery consigned to which, and to a speedy end for mental torture is not supportable beyond a certain point, and that point i feel i have attained, my course is run. bless you, bless you some future traveller, visiting, from motives of curiosity, not unmingled, let us hope, with sympathy, the place of confinement allotted to debtors in this city, may, and i trust will, ponder, as he traces on its wall, inscribed with a rusty nail, the obscure initials, w. m.

p.s. i reopen this to say that our common friend, mr. thomas traddles who has not yet left us, and is looking extremely well, has paid the debt and costs, in the noble name of miss trotwood and that myself and family are at the height of earthly bliss.



chapter 

tempest

i now approach an event in my life, so indelible, so awful, so bound by an infinite variety of ties to all that has preceded it, in these pages, that, from the beginning of my narrative, i have seen it growing larger and larger as i advanced, like a great tower in a plain, and throwing its forecast shadow even on the incidents of my childish days.

for years after it occurred, i dreamed of it often. i have started up so vividly impressed by it, that its fury has yet seemed raging in my quiet room, in the still night. i dream of it sometimes, though at lengthened and uncertain intervals, to this hour. i have an association between it and a stormy wind, or the lightest mention of a seashore, as strong as any of which my mind is conscious. as plainly as i behold what happened, i will try to write it down. i do not recall it, but see it done for it happens again before me.

the time drawing on rapidly for the sailing of the emigrantship, my good old nurse almost brokenhearted for me, when we first met came up to london. i was constantly with her, and her brother, and the micawbers they being very much together but emily i never saw.

one evening when the time was close at hand, i was alone with peggotty and her brother. our conversation turned on ham. she described to us how tenderly he had taken leave of her, and how manfully and quietly he had borne himself. most of all, of late, when she believed he was most tried. it was a subject of which the affectionate creature never tired and our interest in hearing the many examples which she, who was so much with him, had to relate, was equal to hers in relating them.

my aunt and i were at that time vacating the two cottages at highgate i intending to go abroad, and she to return to her house at dover. we had a temporary lodging in covent garden. as i walked home to it, after this evenings conversation, reflecting on what had passed between ham and myself when i was last at yarmouth, i wavered in the original purpose i had formed, of leaving a letter for emily when i should take leave of her uncle on board the ship, and thought it would be better to write to her now. she might desire, i thought, after receiving my communication, to send some parting word by me to her unhappy lover. i ought to give her the opportunity.

i therefore sat down in my room, before going to bed, and wrote to her. i told her that i had seen him, and that he had requested me to tell her what i have already written in its place in these sheets. i faithfully repeated it. i had no need to enlarge upon it, if i had had the right. its deep fidelity and goodness were not to be adorned by me or any man. i left it out, to be sent round in the morning with a line to mr. peggotty, requesting him to give it to her and went to bed at daybreak.

i was weaker than i knew then and, not falling asleep until the sun was up, lay late, and unrefreshed, next day. i was roused by the silent presence of my aunt at my bedside. i felt it in my sleep, as i suppose we all do feel such things.

trot, my dear, she said, when i opened my eyes, i couldnt make up my mind to disturb you. mr. peggotty is here shall he come up

i replied yes, and he soon appeared.

masr davy, he said, when we had shaken hands, i giv emly your letter, sir, and she writ this heer and begged of me fur to ask you to read it, and if you see no hurt int, to be so kind as take charge ont.

have you read it said i.

he nodded sorrowfully. i opened it, and read as follows


i have got your message. oh, what can i write, to thank you for your good and blessed kindness to me i have put the words close to my heart. i shall keep them till i die. they are sharp thorns, but they are such comfort. i have prayed over them, oh, i have prayed so much. when i find what you are, and what uncle is, i think what god must be, and can cry to him.

goodbye for ever. now, my dear, my friend, goodbye for ever in this world. in another world, if i am forgiven, i may wake a child and come to you. all thanks and blessings. farewell, evermore.


this, blotted with tears, was the letter.

may i tell her as you doent see no hurt int, and as youll be so kind as take charge ont, masr davy said mr. peggotty, when i had read it.

unquestionably, said i  but i am thinking 

yes, masr davy

i am thinking, said i, that ill go down again to yarmouth.

theres time, and to spare, for me to go and come back before the ship sails. my mind is constantly running on him, in his solitude to put this letter of her writing in his hand at this time, and to enable you to tell her, in the moment of parting, that he has got it, will be a kindness to both of them. i solemnly accepted his commission, dear good fellow, and cannot discharge it too completely. the journey is nothing to me. i am restless, and shall be better in motion. ill go down tonight.

though he anxiously endeavoured to dissuade me, i saw that he was of my mind and this, if i had required to be confirmed in my intention, would have had the effect. he went round to the coach office, at my request, and took the boxseat for me on the mail.

in the evening i started, by that conveyance, down the road i had traversed under so many vicissitudes.

dont you think that, i asked the coachman, in the first stage out of london, a very remarkable sky i dont remember to have seen one like it.

nor i  not equal to it, he replied. thats wind, sir.

therell be mischief done at sea, i expect, before long.

it was a murky confusion  here and there blotted with a colour like the colour of the smoke from damp fuel  of flying clouds, tossed up into most remarkable heaps, suggesting greater heights in the clouds than there were depths below them to the bottom of the deepest hollows in the earth, through which the wild moon seemed to plunge headlong, as if, in a dread disturbance of the laws of nature, she had lost her way and were frightened. there had been a wind all day and it was rising then, with an extraordinary great sound. in another hour it had much increased, and the sky was more overcast, and blew hard.

but, as the night advanced, the clouds closing in and densely overspreading the whole sky, then very dark, it came on to blow, harder and harder. it still increased, until our horses could scarcely face the wind. many times, in the dark part of the night it was then late in september, when the nights were not short, the leaders turned about, or came to a dead stop and we were often in serious apprehension that the coach would be blown over.

sweeping gusts of rain came up before this storm, like showers of steel and, at those times, when there was any shelter of trees or lee walls to be got, we were fain to stop, in a sheer impossibility of continuing the struggle.

when the day broke, it blew harder and harder. i had been in yarmouth when the seamen said it blew great guns, but i had never known the like of this, or anything approaching to it. we came to ipswich  very late, having had to fight every inch of ground since we were ten miles out of london and found a cluster of people in the marketplace, who had risen from their beds in the night, fearful of falling chimneys. some of these, congregating about the innyard while we changed horses, told us of great sheets of lead having been ripped off a high churchtower, and flung into a bystreet, which they then blocked up. others had to tell of country people, coming in from neighbouring villages, who had seen great trees lying torn out of the earth, and whole ricks scattered about the roads and fields. still, there was no abatement in the storm, but it blew harder.

as we struggled on, nearer and nearer to the sea, from which this mighty wind was blowing dead on shore, its force became more and more terrific. long before we saw the sea, its spray was on our lips, and showered salt rain upon us. the water was out, over miles and miles of the flat country adjacent to yarmouth and every sheet and puddle lashed its banks, and had its stress of little breakers setting heavily towards us. when we came within sight of the sea, the waves on the horizon, caught at intervals above the rolling abyss, were like glimpses of another shore with towers and buildings. when at last we got into the town, the people came out to their doors, all aslant, and with streaming hair, making a wonder of the mail that had come through such a night.

i put up at the old inn, and went down to look at the sea staggering along the street, which was strewn with sand and seaweed, and with flying blotches of seafoam afraid of falling slates and tiles and holding by people i met, at angry corners.

coming near the beach, i saw, not only the boatmen, but half the people of the town, lurking behind buildings some, now and then braving the fury of the storm to look away to sea, and blown sheer out of their course in trying to get zigzag back.

joining these groups, i found bewailing women whose husbands were away in herring or oyster boats, which there was too much reason to think might have foundered before they could run in anywhere for safety. grizzled old sailors were among the people, shaking their heads, as they looked from water to sky, and muttering to one another shipowners, excited and uneasy children, huddling together, and peering into older faces even stout mariners, disturbed and anxious, levelling their glasses at the sea from behind places of shelter, as if they were surveying an enemy.

the tremendous sea itself, when i could find sufficient pause to look at it, in the agitation of the blinding wind, the flying stones and sand, and the awful noise, confounded me. as the high watery walls came rolling in, and, at their highest, tumbled into surf, they looked as if the least would engulf the town. as the receding wave swept back with a hoarse roar, it seemed to scoop out deep caves in the beach, as if its purpose were to undermine the earth. when some whiteheaded billows thundered on, and dashed themselves to pieces before they reached the land, every fragment of the late whole seemed possessed by the full might of its wrath, rushing to be gathered to the composition of another monster.

undulating hills were changed to valleys, undulating valleys with a solitary stormbird sometimes skimming through them were lifted up to hills masses of water shivered and shook the beach with a booming sound every shape tumultuously rolled on, as soon as made, to change its shape and place, and beat another shape and place away the ideal shore on the horizon, with its towers and buildings, rose and fell the clouds fell fast and thick i seemed to see a rending and upheaving of all nature.

not finding ham among the people whom this memorable wind  for it is still remembered down there, as the greatest ever known to blow upon that coast  had brought together, i made my way to his house.

it was shut and as no one answered to my knocking, i went, by back ways and bylanes, to the yard where he worked. i learned, there, that he had gone to lowestoft, to meet some sudden exigency of shiprepairing in which his skill was required but that he would be back tomorrow morning, in good time.

i went back to the inn and when i had washed and dressed, and tried to sleep, but in vain, it was five oclock in the afternoon.

i had not sat five minutes by the coffeeroom fire, when the waiter, coming to stir it, as an excuse for talking, told me that two colliers had gone down, with all hands, a few miles away and that some other ships had been seen labouring hard in the roads, and trying, in great distress, to keep off shore. mercy on them, and on all poor sailors, said he, if we had another night like the last

i was very much depressed in spirits very solitary and felt an uneasiness in hams not being there, disproportionate to the occasion. i was seriously affected, without knowing how much, by late events and my long exposure to the fierce wind had confused me. there was that jumble in my thoughts and recollections, that i had lost the clear arrangement of time and distance. thus, if i had gone out into the town, i should not have been surprised, i think, to encounter someone who i knew must be then in london. so to speak, there was in these respects a curious inattention in my mind. yet it was busy, too, with all the remembrances the place naturally awakened and they were particularly distinct and vivid.

in this state, the waiters dismal intelligence about the ships immediately connected itself, without any effort of my volition, with my uneasiness about ham. i was persuaded that i had an apprehension of his returning from lowestoft by sea, and being lost. this grew so strong with me, that i resolved to go back to the yard before i took my dinner, and ask the boatbuilder if he thought his attempting to return by sea at all likely if he gave me the least reason to think so, i would go over to lowestoft and prevent it by bringing him with me.

i hastily ordered my dinner, and went back to the yard. i was none too soon for the boatbuilder, with a lantern in his hand, was locking the yardgate. he quite laughed when i asked him the question, and said there was no fear no man in his senses, or out of them, would put off in such a gale of wind, least of all ham peggotty, who had been born to seafaring.

so sensible of this, beforehand, that i had really felt ashamed of doing what i was nevertheless impelled to do, i went back to the inn. if such a wind could rise, i think it was rising. the howl and roar, the rattling of the doors and windows, the rumbling in the chimneys, the apparent rocking of the very house that sheltered me, and the prodigious tumult of the sea, were more fearful than in the morning. but there was now a great darkness besides and that invested the storm with new terrors, real and fanciful.

i could not eat, i could not sit still, i could not continue steadfast to anything. something within me, faintly answering to the storm without, tossed up the depths of my memory and made a tumult in them. yet, in all the hurry of my thoughts, wild running with the thundering sea,  the storm, and my uneasiness regarding ham were always in the foreground.

my dinner went away almost untasted, and i tried to refresh myself with a glass or two of wine. in vain. i fell into a dull slumber before the fire, without losing my consciousness, either of the uproar out of doors, or of the place in which i was. both became overshadowed by a new and indefinable horror and when i awoke  or rather when i shook off the lethargy that bound me in my chair my whole frame thrilled with objectless and unintelligible fear.

i walked to and fro, tried to read an old gazetteer, listened to the awful noises looked at faces, scenes, and figures in the fire.

at length, the steady ticking of the undisturbed clock on the wall tormented me to that degree that i resolved to go to bed.

it was reassuring, on such a night, to be told that some of the innservants had agreed together to sit up until morning. i went to bed, exceedingly weary and heavy but, on my lying down, all such sensations vanished, as if by magic, and i was broad awake, with every sense refined.

for hours i lay there, listening to the wind and water imagining, now, that i heard shrieks out at sea now, that i distinctly heard the firing of signal guns and now, the fall of houses in the town.

i got up, several times, and looked out but could see nothing, except the reflection in the windowpanes of the faint candle i had left burning, and of my own haggard face looking in at me from the black void.

at length, my restlessness attained to such a pitch, that i hurried on my clothes, and went downstairs. in the large kitchen, where i dimly saw bacon and ropes of onions hanging from the beams, the watchers were clustered together, in various attitudes, about a table, purposely moved away from the great chimney, and brought near the door. a pretty girl, who had her ears stopped with her apron, and her eyes upon the door, screamed when i appeared, supposing me to be a spirit but the others had more presence of mind, and were glad of an addition to their company. one man, referring to the topic they had been discussing, asked me whether i thought the souls of the colliercrews who had gone down, were out in the storm

i remained there, i dare say, two hours. once, i opened the yardgate, and looked into the empty street. the sand, the seaweed, and the flakes of foam, were driving by and i was obliged to call for assistance before i could shut the gate again, and make it fast against the wind.

there was a dark gloom in my solitary chamber, when i at length returned to it but i was tired now, and, getting into bed again, fell  off a tower and down a precipice  into the depths of sleep.

i have an impression that for a long time, though i dreamed of being elsewhere and in a variety of scenes, it was always blowing in my dream. at length, i lost that feeble hold upon reality, and was engaged with two dear friends, but who they were i dont know, at the siege of some town in a roar of cannonading.

the thunder of the cannon was so loud and incessant, that i could not hear something i much desired to hear, until i made a great exertion and awoke. it was broad day  eight or nine oclock the storm raging, in lieu of the batteries and someone knocking and calling at my door.

what is the matter i cried.

a wreck close by

i sprung out of bed, and asked, what wreck a schooner, from spain or portugal, laden with fruit and wine.

make haste, sir, if you want to see her its thought, down on the beach, shell go to pieces every moment.

the excited voice went clamouring along the staircase and i wrapped myself in my clothes as quickly as i could, and ran into the street.

numbers of people were there before me, all running in one direction, to the beach. i ran the same way, outstripping a good many, and soon came facing the wild sea.

the wind might by this time have lulled a little, though not more sensibly than if the cannonading i had dreamed of, had been diminished by the silencing of halfadozen guns out of hundreds.

but the sea, having upon it the additional agitation of the whole night, was infinitely more terrific than when i had seen it last.

every appearance it had then presented, bore the expression of being swelled and the height to which the breakers rose, and, looking over one another, bore one another down, and rolled in, in interminable hosts, was most appalling.

in the difficulty of hearing anything but wind and waves, and in the crowd, and the unspeakable confusion, and my first breathless efforts to stand against the weather, i was so confused that i looked out to sea for the wreck, and saw nothing but the foaming heads of the great waves. a halfdressed boatman, standing next me, pointed with his bare arm a tattood arrow on it, pointing in the same direction to the left. then, o great heaven, i saw it, close in upon us

one mast was broken short off, six or eight feet from the deck, and lay over the side, entangled in a maze of sail and rigging and all that ruin, as the ship rolled and beat  which she did without a moments pause, and with a violence quite inconceivable  beat the side as if it would stave it in. some efforts were even then being made, to cut this portion of the wreck away for, as the ship, which was broadside on, turned towards us in her rolling, i plainly descried her people at work with axes, especially one active figure with long curling hair, conspicuous among the rest. but a great cry, which was audible even above the wind and water, rose from the shore at this moment the sea, sweeping over the rolling wreck, made a clean breach, and carried men, spars, casks, planks, bulwarks, heaps of such toys, into the boiling surge.

the second mast was yet standing, with the rags of a rent sail, and a wild confusion of broken cordage flapping to and fro. the ship had struck once, the same boatman hoarsely said in my ear, and then lifted in and struck again. i understood him to add that she was parting amidships, and i could readily suppose so, for the rolling and beating were too tremendous for any human work to suffer long.

as he spoke, there was another great cry of pity from the beach four men arose with the wreck out of the deep, clinging to the rigging of the remaining mast uppermost, the active figure with the curling hair.

there was a bell on board and as the ship rolled and dashed, like a desperate creature driven mad, now showing us the whole sweep of her deck, as she turned on her beamends towards the shore, now nothing but her keel, as she sprung wildly over and turned towards the sea, the bell rang and its sound, the knell of those unhappy men, was borne towards us on the wind. again we lost her, and again she rose. two men were gone. the agony on the shore increased. men groaned, and clasped their hands women shrieked, and turned away their faces. some ran wildly up and down along the beach, crying for help where no help could be. i found myself one of these, frantically imploring a knot of sailors whom i knew, not to let those two lost creatures perish before our eyes.

they were making out to me, in an agitated way  i dont know how, for the little i could hear i was scarcely composed enough to understand  that the lifeboat had been bravely manned an hour ago, and could do nothing and that as no man would be so desperate as to attempt to wade off with a rope, and establish a communication with the shore, there was nothing left to try when i noticed that some new sensation moved the people on the beach, and saw them part, and ham come breaking through them to the front.

i ran to him  as well as i know, to repeat my appeal for help.

but, distracted though i was, by a sight so new to me and terrible, the determination in his face, and his look out to sea  exactly the same look as i remembered in connexion with the morning after emilys flight  awoke me to a knowledge of his danger. i held him back with both arms and implored the men with whom i had been speaking, not to listen to him, not to do murder, not to let him stir from off that sand

another cry arose on shore and looking to the wreck, we saw the cruel sail, with blow on blow, beat off the lower of the two men, and fly up in triumph round the active figure left alone upon the mast.

against such a sight, and against such determination as that of the calmly desperate man who was already accustomed to lead half the people present, i might as hopefully have entreated the wind.

masr davy, he said, cheerily grasping me by both hands, if my time is come, tis come. if tant, ill bide it. lord above bless you, and bless all mates, make me ready im agoing off

i was swept away, but not unkindly, to some distance, where the people around me made me stay urging, as i confusedly perceived, that he was bent on going, with help or without, and that i should endanger the precautions for his safety by troubling those with whom they rested. i dont know what i answered, or what they rejoined but i saw hurry on the beach, and men running with ropes from a capstan that was there, and penetrating into a circle of figures that hid him from me. then, i saw him standing alone, in a seamans frock and trousers a rope in his hand, or slung to his wrist another round his body and several of the best men holding, at a little distance, to the latter, which he laid out himself, slack upon the shore, at his feet.

the wreck, even to my unpractised eye, was breaking up. i saw that she was parting in the middle, and that the life of the solitary man upon the mast hung by a thread. still, he clung to it. he had a singular red cap on,  not like a sailors cap, but of a finer colour and as the few yielding planks between him and destruction rolled and bulged, and his anticipative deathknell rung, he was seen by all of us to wave it. i saw him do it now, and thought i was going distracted, when his action brought an old remembrance to my mind of a once dear friend.

ham watched the sea, standing alone, with the silence of suspended breath behind him, and the storm before, until there was a great retiring wave, when, with a backward glance at those who held the rope which was made fast round his body, he dashed in after it, and in a moment was buffeting with the water rising with the hills, falling with the valleys, lost beneath the foam then drawn again to land. they hauled in hastily.

he was hurt. i saw blood on his face, from where i stood but he took no thought of that. he seemed hurriedly to give them some directions for leaving him more free  or so i judged from the motion of his arm  and was gone as before.

and now he made for the wreck, rising with the hills, falling with the valleys, lost beneath the rugged foam, borne in towards the shore, borne on towards the ship, striving hard and valiantly. the distance was nothing, but the power of the sea and wind made the strife deadly. at length he neared the wreck. he was so near, that with one more of his vigorous strokes he would be clinging to it,  when a high, green, vast hillside of water, moving on shoreward, from beyond the ship, he seemed to leap up into it with a mighty bound, and the ship was gone

some eddying fragments i saw in the sea, as if a mere cask had been broken, in running to the spot where they were hauling in.

consternation was in every face. they drew him to my very feet  insensible  dead. he was carried to the nearest house and, no one preventing me now, i remained near him, busy, while every means of restoration were tried but he had been beaten to death by the great wave, and his generous heart was stilled for ever.

as i sat beside the bed, when hope was abandoned and all was done, a fisherman, who had known me when emily and i were children, and ever since, whispered my name at the door.

sir, said he, with tears starting to his weatherbeaten face, which, with his trembling lips, was ashy pale, will you come over yonder

the old remembrance that had been recalled to me, was in his look.

i asked him, terrorstricken, leaning on the arm he held out to support me has a body come ashore

he said, yes.

do i know it i asked then.

he answered nothing.

but he led me to the shore. and on that part of it where she and i had looked for shells, two children  on that part of it where some lighter fragments of the old boat, blown down last night, had been scattered by the wind  among the ruins of the home he had wronged  i saw him lying with his head upon his arm, as i had often seen him lie at school.



chapter 

the new wound, and the old

no need, o steerforth, to have said, when we last spoke together, in that hour which i so little deemed to be our partinghour  no need to have said, think of me at my best i had done that ever and could i change now, looking on this sight

they brought a handbier, and laid him on it, and covered him with a flag, and took him up and bore him on towards the houses. all the men who carried him had known him, and gone sailing with him, and seen him merry and bold. they carried him through the wild roar, a hush in the midst of all the tumult and took him to the cottage where death was already.

but when they set the bier down on the threshold, they looked at one another, and at me, and whispered. i knew why. they felt as if it were not right to lay him down in the same quiet room.

we went into the town, and took our burden to the inn. so soon as i could at all collect my thoughts, i sent for joram, and begged him to provide me a conveyance in which it could be got to london in the night. i knew that the care of it, and the hard duty of preparing his mother to receive it, could only rest with me and i was anxious to discharge that duty as faithfully as i could.

i chose the night for the journey, that there might be less curiosity when i left the town. but, although it was nearly midnight when i came out of the yard in a chaise, followed by what i had in charge, there were many people waiting. at intervals, along the town, and even a little way out upon the road, i saw more but at length only the bleak night and the open country were around me, and the ashes of my youthful friendship.

upon a mellow autumn day, about noon, when the ground was perfumed by fallen leaves, and many more, in beautiful tints of yellow, red, and brown, yet hung upon the trees, through which the sun was shining, i arrived at highgate. i walked the last mile, thinking as i went along of what i had to do and left the carriage that had followed me all through the night, awaiting orders to advance.

the house, when i came up to it, looked just the same. not a blind was raised no sign of life was in the dull paved court, with its covered way leading to the disused door. the wind had quite gone down, and nothing moved.

i had not, at first, the courage to ring at the gate and when i did ring, my errand seemed to me to be expressed in the very sound of the bell. the little parlourmaid came out, with the key in her hand and looking earnestly at me as she unlocked the gate, said i beg your pardon, sir. are you ill

i have been much agitated, and am fatigued.

is anything the matter, sir  mr. james 

hush said i. yes, something has happened, that i have to break to mrs. steerforth. she is at home

the girl anxiously replied that her mistress was very seldom out now, even in a carriage that she kept her room that she saw no company, but would see me. her mistress was up, she said, and miss dartle was with her. what message should she take upstairs

giving her a strict charge to be careful of her manner, and only to carry in my card and say i waited, i sat down in the drawingroom which we had now reached until she should come back. its former pleasant air of occupation was gone, and the shutters were half closed. the harp had not been used for many and many a day. his picture, as a boy, was there. the cabinet in which his mother had kept his letters was there. i wondered if she ever read them now if she would ever read them more

the house was so still that i heard the girls light step upstairs.

on her return, she brought a message, to the effect that mrs.

steerforth was an invalid and could not come down but that if i would excuse her being in her chamber, she would be glad to see me.

in a few moments i stood before her.

she was in his room not in her own. i felt, of course, that she had taken to occupy it, in remembrance of him and that the many tokens of his old sports and accomplishments, by which she was surrounded, remained there, just as he had left them, for the same reason. she murmured, however, even in her reception of me, that she was out of her own chamber because its aspect was unsuited to her infirmity and with her stately look repelled the least suspicion of the truth.

at her chair, as usual, was rosa dartle. from the first moment of her dark eyes resting on me, i saw she knew i was the bearer of evil tidings. the scar sprung into view that instant. she withdrew herself a step behind the chair, to keep her own face out of mrs. steerforths observation and scrutinized me with a piercing gaze that never faltered, never shrunk.

i am sorry to observe you are in mourning, sir, said mrs.

steerforth.

i am unhappily a widower, said i.

you are very young to know so great a loss, she returned. i am grieved to hear it. i am grieved to hear it. i hope time will be good to you.

i hope time, said i, looking at her, will be good to all of us.

dear mrs. steerforth, we must all trust to that, in our heaviest misfortunes.

the earnestness of my manner, and the tears in my eyes, alarmed her. the whole course of her thoughts appeared to stop, and change.

i tried to command my voice in gently saying his name, but it trembled. she repeated it to herself, two or three times, in a low tone. then, addressing me, she said, with enforced calmness my son is ill.

very ill.

you have seen him

i have.

are you reconciled

i could not say yes, i could not say no. she slightly turned her head towards the spot where rosa dartle had been standing at her elbow, and in that moment i said, by the motion of my lips, to rosa, dead

that mrs. steerforth might not be induced to look behind her, and read, plainly written, what she was not yet prepared to know, i met her look quickly but i had seen rosa dartle throw her hands up in the air with vehemence of despair and horror, and then clasp them on her face.

the handsome lady  so like, oh so like  regarded me with a fixed look, and put her hand to her forehead. i besought her to be calm, and prepare herself to bear what i had to tell but i should rather have entreated her to weep, for she sat like a stone figure.

when i was last here, i faltered, miss dartle told me he was sailing here and there. the night before last was a dreadful one at sea. if he were at sea that night, and near a dangerous coast, as it is said he was and if the vessel that was seen should really be the ship which 

rosa said mrs. steerforth, come to me

she came, but with no sympathy or gentleness. her eyes gleamed like fire as she confronted his mother, and broke into a frightful laugh.

now, she said, is your pride appeased, you madwoman now has he made atonement to you  with his life do you hear  his life

mrs. steerforth, fallen back stiffly in her chair, and making no sound but a moan, cast her eyes upon her with a wide stare.

aye cried rosa, smiting herself passionately on the breast, look at me moan, and groan, and look at me look here striking the scar, at your dead childs handiwork

the moan the mother uttered, from time to time, went to my heart.

always the same. always inarticulate and stifled. always accompanied with an incapable motion of the head, but with no change of face. always proceeding from a rigid mouth and closed teeth, as if the jaw were locked and the face frozen up in pain.

do you remember when he did this she proceeded. do you remember when, in his inheritance of your nature, and in your pampering of his pride and passion, he did this, and disfigured me for life look at me, marked until i die with his high displeasure and moan and groan for what you made him

miss dartle, i entreated her. for heavens sake 

i will speak she said, turning on me with her lightning eyes.

be silent, you look at me, i say, proud mother of a proud, false son moan for your nurture of him, moan for your corruption of him, moan for your loss of him, moan for mine

she clenched her hand, and trembled through her spare, worn figure, as if her passion were killing her by inches.

you, resent his selfwill she exclaimed. you, injured by his haughty temper you, who opposed to both, when your hair was grey, the qualities which made both when you gave him birth you, who from his cradle reared him to be what he was, and stunted what he should have been are you rewarded, now, for your years of trouble

oh, miss dartle, shame oh cruel

i tell you, she returned, i will speak to her. no power on earth should stop me, while i was standing here have i been silent all these years, and shall i not speak now i loved him better than you ever loved him turning on her fiercely. i could have loved him, and asked no return. if i had been his wife, i could have been the slave of his caprices for a word of love a year. i should have been. who knows it better than i you were exacting, proud, punctilious, selfish. my love would have been devoted  would have trod your paltry whimpering under foot

with flashing eyes, she stamped upon the ground as if she actually did it.

look here she said, striking the scar again, with a relentless hand. when he grew into the better understanding of what he had done, he saw it, and repented of it i could sing to him, and talk to him, and show the ardour that i felt in all he did, and attain with labour to such knowledge as most interested him and i attracted him. when he was freshest and truest, he loved me. yes, he did many a time, when you were put off with a slight word, he has taken me to his heart

she said it with a taunting pride in the midst of her frenzy  for it was little less  yet with an eager remembrance of it, in which the smouldering embers of a gentler feeling kindled for the moment.

i descended  as i might have known i should, but that he fascinated me with his boyish courtship  into a doll, a trifle for the occupation of an idle hour, to be dropped, and taken up, and trifled with, as the inconstant humour took him. when he grew weary, i grew weary. as his fancy died out, i would no more have tried to strengthen any power i had, than i would have married him on his being forced to take me for his wife. we fell away from one another without a word. perhaps you saw it, and were not sorry.

since then, i have been a mere disfigured piece of furniture between you both having no eyes, no ears, no feelings, no remembrances. moan moan for what you made him not for your love. i tell you that the time was, when i loved him better than you ever did

she stood with her bright angry eyes confronting the wide stare, and the set face and softened no more, when the moaning was repeated, than if the face had been a picture.

miss dartle, said i, if you can be so obdurate as not to feel for this afflicted mother 

who feels for me she sharply retorted. she has sown this. let her moan for the harvest that she reaps today

and if his faults  i began.

faults she cried, bursting into passionate tears. who dares malign him he had a soul worth millions of the friends to whom he stooped

no one can have loved him better, no one can hold him in dearer remembrance than i, i replied. i meant to say, if you have no compassion for his mother or if his faults  you have been bitter on them 

its false, she cried, tearing her black hair i loved him

 if his faults cannot, i went on, be banished from your remembrance, in such an hour look at that figure, even as one you have never seen before, and render it some help

all this time, the figure was unchanged, and looked unchangeable.

motionless, rigid, staring moaning in the same dumb way from time to time, with the same helpless motion of the head but giving no other sign of life. miss dartle suddenly kneeled down before it, and began to loosen the dress.

a curse upon you she said, looking round at me, with a mingled expression of rage and grief. it was in an evil hour that you ever came here a curse upon you go

after passing out of the room, i hurried back to ring the bell, the sooner to alarm the servants. she had then taken the impassive figure in her arms, and, still upon her knees, was weeping over it, kissing it, calling to it, rocking it to and fro upon her bosom like a child, and trying every tender means to rouse the dormant senses. no longer afraid of leaving her, i noiselessly turned back again and alarmed the house as i went out.

later in the day, i returned, and we laid him in his mothers room.

she was just the same, they told me miss dartle never left her doctors were in attendance, many things had been tried but she lay like a statue, except for the low sound now and then.

i went through the dreary house, and darkened the windows. the windows of the chamber where he lay, i darkened last. i lifted up the leaden hand, and held it to my heart and all the world seemed death and silence, broken only by his mothers moaning.



chapter 

the emigrants

one thing more, i had to do, before yielding myself to the shock of these emotions. it was, to conceal what had occurred, from those who were going away and to dismiss them on their voyage in happy ignorance. in this, no time was to be lost.

i took mr. micawber aside that same night, and confided to him the task of standing between mr. peggotty and intelligence of the late catastrophe. he zealously undertook to do so, and to intercept any newspaper through which it might, without such precautions, reach him.

if it penetrates to him, sir, said mr. micawber, striking himself on the breast, it shall first pass through this body

mr. micawber, i must observe, in his adaptation of himself to a new state of society, had acquired a bold buccaneering air, not absolutely lawless, but defensive and prompt. one might have supposed him a child of the wilderness, long accustomed to live out of the confines of civilization, and about to return to his native wilds.

he had provided himself, among other things, with a complete suit of oilskin, and a straw hat with a very low crown, pitched or caulked on the outside. in this rough clothing, with a common mariners telescope under his arm, and a shrewd trick of casting up his eye at the sky as looking out for dirty weather, he was far more nautical, after his manner, than mr. peggotty. his whole family, if i may so express it, were cleared for action. i found mrs. micawber in the closest and most uncompromising of bonnets, made fast under the chin and in a shawl which tied her up as i had been tied up, when my aunt first received me like a bundle, and was secured behind at the waist, in a strong knot. miss micawber i found made snug for stormy weather, in the same manner with nothing superfluous about her. master micawber was hardly visible in a guernsey shirt, and the shaggiest suit of slops i ever saw and the children were done up, like preserved meats, in impervious cases. both mr. micawber and his eldest son wore their sleeves loosely turned back at the wrists, as being ready to lend a hand in any direction, and to tumble up, or sing out, yeo  heave  yeo on the shortest notice.

thus traddles and i found them at nightfall, assembled on the wooden steps, at that time known as hungerford stairs, watching the departure of a boat with some of their property on board. i had told traddles of the terrible event, and it had greatly shocked him but there could be no doubt of the kindness of keeping it a secret, and he had come to help me in this last service. it was here that i took mr. micawber aside, and received his promise.

the micawber family were lodged in a little, dirty, tumbledown publichouse, which in those days was close to the stairs, and whose protruding wooden rooms overhung the river. the family, as emigrants, being objects of some interest in and about hungerford, attracted so many beholders, that we were glad to take refuge in their room. it was one of the wooden chambers upstairs, with the tide flowing underneath. my aunt and agnes were there, busily making some little extra comforts, in the way of dress, for the children. peggotty was quietly assisting, with the old insensible workbox, yardmeasure, and bit of waxcandle before her, that had now outlived so much.

it was not easy to answer her inquiries still less to whisper mr.

peggotty, when mr. micawber brought him in, that i had given the letter, and all was well. but i did both, and made them happy. if i showed any trace of what i felt, my own sorrows were sufficient to account for it.

and when does the ship sail, mr. micawber asked my aunt.

mr. micawber considered it necessary to prepare either my aunt or his wife, by degrees, and said, sooner than he had expected yesterday.

the boat brought you word, i suppose said my aunt.

it did, maam, he returned.

well said my aunt. and she sails 

madam, he replied, i am informed that we must positively be on board before seven tomorrow morning.

heyday said my aunt, thats soon. is it a seagoing fact, mr.

peggotty

tis so, maam. shell drop down the river with that theer tide.

if masr davy and my sister comes aboard at gravesen, arternoon o next day, theyll see the last on us.

and that we shall do, said i, be sure

until then, and until we are at sea, observed mr. micawber, with a glance of intelligence at me, mr. peggotty and myself will constantly keep a double lookout together, on our goods and chattels. emma, my love, said mr. micawber, clearing his throat in his magnificent way, my friend mr. thomas traddles is so obliging as to solicit, in my ear, that he should have the privilege of ordering the ingredients necessary to the composition of a moderate portion of that beverage which is peculiarly associated, in our minds, with the roast beef of old england. i allude to  in short, punch. under ordinary circumstances, i should scruple to entreat the indulgence of miss trotwood and miss wickfield, but

i can only say for myself, said my aunt, that i will drink all happiness and success to you, mr. micawber, with the utmost pleasure.

and i too said agnes, with a smile.

mr. micawber immediately descended to the bar, where he appeared to be quite at home and in due time returned with a steaming jug. i could not but observe that he had been peeling the lemons with his own claspknife, which, as became the knife of a practical settler, was about a foot long and which he wiped, not wholly without ostentation, on the sleeve of his coat. mrs. micawber and the two elder members of the family i now found to be provided with similar formidable instruments, while every child had its own wooden spoon attached to its body by a strong line. in a similar anticipation of life afloat, and in the bush, mr. micawber, instead of helping mrs. micawber and his eldest son and daughter to punch, in wineglasses, which he might easily have done, for there was a shelffull in the room, served it out to them in a series of villainous little tin pots and i never saw him enjoy anything so much as drinking out of his own particular pint pot, and putting it in his pocket at the close of the evening.

the luxuries of the old country, said mr. micawber, with an intense satisfaction in their renouncement, we abandon. the denizens of the forest cannot, of course, expect to participate in the refinements of the land of the free.

here, a boy came in to say that mr. micawber was wanted downstairs.

i have a presentiment, said mrs. micawber, setting down her tin pot, that it is a member of my family

if so, my dear, observed mr. micawber, with his usual suddenness of warmth on that subject, as the member of your family  whoever he, she, or it, may be  has kept us waiting for a considerable period, perhaps the member may now wait my convenience.

micawber, said his wife, in a low tone, at such a time as this 

it is not meet, said mr. micawber, rising, that every nice offence should bear its comment emma, i stand reproved.

the loss, micawber, observed his wife, has been my familys, not yours. if my family are at length sensible of the deprivation to which their own conduct has, in the past, exposed them, and now desire to extend the hand of fellowship, let it not be repulsed.

my dear, he returned, so be it

if not for their sakes for mine, micawber, said his wife.

emma, he returned, that view of the question is, at such a moment, irresistible. i cannot, even now, distinctly pledge myself to fall upon your familys neck but the member of your family, who is now in attendance, shall have no genial warmth frozen by me.

mr. micawber withdrew, and was absent some little time in the course of which mrs. micawber was not wholly free from an apprehension that words might have arisen between him and the member. at length the same boy reappeared, and presented me with a note written in pencil, and headed, in a legal manner, heep v.

micawber. from this document, i learned that mr. micawber being again arrested, was in a final paroxysm of despair and that he begged me to send him his knife and pint pot, by bearer, as they might prove serviceable during the brief remainder of his existence, in jail. he also requested, as a last act of friendship, that i would see his family to the parish workhouse, and forget that such a being ever lived.

of course i answered this note by going down with the boy to pay the money, where i found mr. micawber sitting in a corner, looking darkly at the sheriff s officer who had effected the capture. on his release, he embraced me with the utmost fervour and made an entry of the transaction in his pocketbook  being very particular, i recollect, about a halfpenny i inadvertently omitted from my statement of the total.

this momentous pocketbook was a timely reminder to him of another transaction. on our return to the room upstairs where he accounted for his absence by saying that it had been occasioned by circumstances over which he had no control, he took out of it a large sheet of paper, folded small, and quite covered with long sums, carefully worked. from the glimpse i had of them, i should say that i never saw such sums out of a school cipheringbook.

these, it seemed, were calculations of compound interest on what he called the principal amount of fortyone, ten, eleven and a half, for various periods. after a careful consideration of these, and an elaborate estimate of his resources, he had come to the conclusion to select that sum which represented the amount with compound interest to two years, fifteen calendar months, and fourteen days, from that date. for this he had drawn a noteofhand with great neatness, which he handed over to traddles on the spot, a discharge of his debt in full as between man and man, with many acknowledgements.

i have still a presentiment, said mrs. micawber, pensively shaking her head, that my family will appear on board, before we finally depart.

mr. micawber evidently had his presentiment on the subject too, but he put it in his tin pot and swallowed it.

if you have any opportunity of sending letters home, on your passage, mrs. micawber, said my aunt, you must let us hear from you, you know.

my dear miss trotwood, she replied, i shall only be too happy to think that anyone expects to hear from us. i shall not fail to correspond. mr. copperfield, i trust, as an old and familiar friend, will not object to receive occasional intelligence, himself, from one who knew him when the twins were yet unconscious

i said that i should hope to hear, whenever she had an opportunity of writing.

please heaven, there will be many such opportunities, said mr.

micawber. the ocean, in these times, is a perfect fleet of ships and we can hardly fail to encounter many, in running over. it is merely crossing, said mr. micawber, trifling with his eyeglass, merely crossing. the distance is quite imaginary.

i think, now, how odd it was, but how wonderfully like mr.

micawber, that, when he went from london to canterbury, he should have talked as if he were going to the farthest limits of the earth and, when he went from england to australia, as if he were going for a little trip across the channel.

on the voyage, i shall endeavour, said mr. micawber, occasionally to spin them a yarn and the melody of my son wilkins will, i trust, be acceptable at the galleyfire. when mrs.

micawber has her sealegs on  an expression in which i hope there is no conventional impropriety  she will give them, i dare say,

little tafflin. porpoises and dolphins, i believe, will be frequently observed athwart our bows and, either on the starboard or the larboard quarter, objects of interest will be continually descried. in short, said mr. micawber, with the old genteel air, the probability is, all will be found so exciting, alow and aloft, that when the lookout, stationed in the maintop, cries landoh we shall be very considerably astonished

with that he flourished off the contents of his little tin pot, as if he had made the voyage, and had passed a firstclass examination before the highest naval authorities.

what i chiefly hope, my dear mr. copperfield, said mrs.

micawber, is, that in some branches of our family we may live again in the old country. do not frown, micawber i do not now refer to my own family, but to our childrens children. however vigorous the sapling, said mrs. micawber, shaking her head, i cannot forget the parenttree and when our race attains to eminence and fortune, i own i should wish that fortune to flow into the coffers of britannia.

my dear, said mr. micawber, britannia must take her chance. i am bound to say that she has never done much for me, and that i have no particular wish upon the subject.

micawber, returned mrs. micawber, there, you are wrong. you are going out, micawber, to this distant clime, to strengthen, not to weaken, the connexion between yourself and albion.

the connexion in question, my love, rejoined mr. micawber, has not laid me, i repeat, under that load of personal obligation, that i am at all sensitive as to the formation of another connexion.

micawber, returned mrs. micawber. there, i again say, you are wrong. you do not know your power, micawber. it is that which will strengthen, even in this step you are about to take, the connexion between yourself and albion.

mr. micawber sat in his elbowchair, with his eyebrows raised half receiving and half repudiating mrs. micawbers views as they were stated, but very sensible of their foresight.

my dear mr. copperfield, said mrs. micawber, i wish mr. micawber to feel his position. it appears to me highly important that mr.

micawber should, from the hour of his embarkation, feel his position. your old knowledge of me, my dear mr. copperfield, will have told you that i have not the sanguine disposition of mr.

micawber. my disposition is, if i may say so, eminently practical.

i know that this is a long voyage. i know that it will involve many privations and inconveniences. i cannot shut my eyes to those facts. but i also know what mr. micawber is. i know the latent power of mr. micawber. and therefore i consider it vitally important that mr. micawber should feel his position.

my love, he observed, perhaps you will allow me to remark that it is barely possible that i do feel my position at the present moment.

i think not, micawber, she rejoined. not fully. my dear mr.

copperfield, mr. micawbers is not a common case. mr. micawber is going to a distant country expressly in order that he may be fully understood and appreciated for the first time. i wish mr. micawber to take his stand upon that vessels prow, and firmly say, this country i am come to conquer have you honours have you riches

have you posts of profitable pecuniary emolument let them be brought forward. they are mine

mr. micawber, glancing at us all, seemed to think there was a good deal in this idea.

i wish mr. micawber, if i make myself understood, said mrs.

micawber, in her argumentative tone, to be the caesar of his own fortunes. that, my dear mr. copperfield, appears to me to be his true position. from the first moment of this voyage, i wish mr.

micawber to stand upon that vessels prow and say, enough of delay enough of disappointment enough of limited means. that was in the old country. this is the new. produce your reparation.

bring it forward

mr. micawber folded his arms in a resolute manner, as if he were then stationed on the figurehead.

and doing that, said mrs. micawber,  feeling his position  am i not right in saying that mr. micawber will strengthen, and not weaken, his connexion with britain an important public character arising in that hemisphere, shall i be told that its influence will not be felt at home can i be so weak as to imagine that mr.

micawber, wielding the rod of talent and of power in australia, will be nothing in england i am but a woman but i should be unworthy of myself and of my papa, if i were guilty of such absurd weakness.

mrs. micawbers conviction that her arguments were unanswerable, gave a moral elevation to her tone which i think i had never heard in it before.

and therefore it is, said mrs. micawber, that i the more wish, that, at a future period, we may live again on the parent soil.

mr. micawber may be  i cannot disguise from myself that the probability is, mr. micawber will be  a page of history and he ought then to be represented in the country which gave him birth, and did not give him employment

my love, observed mr. micawber, it is impossible for me not to be touched by your affection. i am always willing to defer to your good sense. what will be  will be. heaven forbid that i should grudge my native country any portion of the wealth that may be accumulated by our descendants

thats well, said my aunt, nodding towards mr. peggotty, and i drink my love to you all, and every blessing and success attend you

mr. peggotty put down the two children he had been nursing, one on each knee, to join mr. and mrs. micawber in drinking to all of us in return and when he and the micawbers cordially shook hands as comrades, and his brown face brightened with a smile, i felt that he would make his way, establish a good name, and be beloved, go where he would.

even the children were instructed, each to dip a wooden spoon into mr. micawbers pot, and pledge us in its contents. when this was done, my aunt and agnes rose, and parted from the emigrants. it was a sorrowful farewell. they were all crying the children hung about agnes to the last and we left poor mrs. micawber in a very distressed condition, sobbing and weeping by a dim candle, that must have made the room look, from the river, like a miserable lighthouse.

i went down again next morning to see that they were away. they had departed, in a boat, as early as five oclock. it was a wonderful instance to me of the gap such partings make, that although my association of them with the tumbledown publichouse and the wooden stairs dated only from last night, both seemed dreary and deserted, now that they were gone.

in the afternoon of the next day, my old nurse and i went down to gravesend. we found the ship in the river, surrounded by a crowd of boats a favourable wind blowing the signal for sailing at her masthead. i hired a boat directly, and we put off to her and getting through the little vortex of confusion of which she was the centre, went on board.

mr. peggotty was waiting for us on deck. he told me that mr.

micawber had just now been arrested again and for the last time at the suit of heep, and that, in compliance with a request i had made to him, he had paid the money, which i repaid him. he then took us down between decks and there, any lingering fears i had of his having heard any rumours of what had happened, were dispelled by mr. micawbers coming out of the gloom, taking his arm with an air of friendship and protection, and telling me that they had scarcely been asunder for a moment, since the night before last.

it was such a strange scene to me, and so confined and dark, that, at first, i could make out hardly anything but, by degrees, it cleared, as my eyes became more accustomed to the gloom, and i seemed to stand in a picture by ostade. among the great beams, bulks, and ringbolts of the ship, and the emigrantberths, and chests, and bundles, and barrels, and heaps of miscellaneous baggage lighted up, here and there, by dangling lanterns and elsewhere by the yellow daylight straying down a windsail or a hatchway  were crowded groups of people, making new friendships, taking leave of one another, talking, laughing, crying, eating and drinking some, already settled down into the possession of their few feet of space, with their little households arranged, and tiny children established on stools, or in dwarf elbowchairs others, despairing of a restingplace, and wandering disconsolately. from babies who had but a week or two of life behind them, to crooked old men and women who seemed to have but a week or two of life before them and from ploughmen bodily carrying out soil of england on their boots, to smiths taking away samples of its soot and smoke upon their skins every age and occupation appeared to be crammed into the narrow compass of the tween decks.

as my eye glanced round this place, i thought i saw sitting, by an open port, with one of the micawber children near her, a figure like emilys it first attracted my attention, by another figure parting from it with a kiss and as it glided calmly away through the disorder, reminding me of  agnes but in the rapid motion and confusion, and in the unsettlement of my own thoughts, i lost it again and only knew that the time was come when all visitors were being warned to leave the ship that my nurse was crying on a chest beside me and that mrs. gummidge, assisted by some younger stooping woman in black, was busily arranging mr. peggottys goods.

is there any last wured, masr davy said he. is there any one forgotten thing afore we parts

one thing said i. martha

he touched the younger woman i have mentioned on the shoulder, and martha stood before me.

heaven bless you, you good man cried i. you take her with you

she answered for him, with a burst of tears. i could speak no more at that time, but i wrung his hand and if ever i have loved and honoured any man, i loved and honoured that man in my soul.

the ship was clearing fast of strangers. the greatest trial that i had, remained. i told him what the noble spirit that was gone, had given me in charge to say at parting. it moved him deeply.

but when he charged me, in return, with many messages of affection and regret for those deaf ears, he moved me more.

the time was come. i embraced him, took my weeping nurse upon my arm, and hurried away. on deck, i took leave of poor mrs.

micawber. she was looking distractedly about for her family, even then and her last words to me were, that she never would desert mr. micawber.

we went over the side into our boat, and lay at a little distance, to see the ship wafted on her course. it was then calm, radiant sunset. she lay between us, and the red light and every taper line and spar was visible against the glow. a sight at once so beautiful, so mournful, and so hopeful, as the glorious ship, lying, still, on the flushed water, with all the life on board her crowded at the bulwarks, and there clustering, for a moment, bareheaded and silent, i never saw.

silent, only for a moment. as the sails rose to the wind, and the ship began to move, there broke from all the boats three resounding cheers, which those on board took up, and echoed back, and which were echoed and reechoed. my heart burst out when i heard the sound, and beheld the waving of the hats and handkerchiefs  and then i saw her

then i saw her, at her uncles side, and trembling on his shoulder.

he pointed to us with an eager hand and she saw us, and waved her last goodbye to me. aye, emily, beautiful and drooping, cling to him with the utmost trust of thy bruised heart for he has clung to thee, with all the might of his great love

surrounded by the rosy light, and standing high upon the deck, apart together, she clinging to him, and he holding her, they solemnly passed away. the night had fallen on the kentish hills when we were rowed ashore  and fallen darkly upon me.



chapter 

absence

it was a long and gloomy night that gathered on me, haunted by the ghosts of many hopes, of many dear remembrances, many errors, many unavailing sorrows and regrets.

i went away from england not knowing, even then, how great the shock was, that i had to bear. i left all who were dear to me, and went away and believed that i had borne it, and it was past. as a man upon a field of battle will receive a mortal hurt, and scarcely know that he is struck, so i, when i was left alone with my undisciplined heart, had no conception of the wound with which it had to strive.

the knowledge came upon me, not quickly, but little by little, and grain by grain. the desolate feeling with which i went abroad, deepened and widened hourly. at first it was a heavy sense of loss and sorrow, wherein i could distinguish little else. by imperceptible degrees, it became a hopeless consciousness of all that i had lost  love, friendship, interest of all that had been shattered  my first trust, my first affection, the whole airy castle of my life of all that remained  a ruined blank and waste, lying wide around me, unbroken, to the dark horizon.

if my grief were selfish, i did not know it to be so. i mourned for my childwife, taken from her blooming world, so young. i mourned for him who might have won the love and admiration of thousands, as he had won mine long ago. i mourned for the broken heart that had found rest in the stormy sea and for the wandering remnants of the simple home, where i had heard the nightwind blowing, when i was a child.

from the accumulated sadness into which i fell, i had at length no hope of ever issuing again. i roamed from place to place, carrying my burden with me everywhere. i felt its whole weight now and i drooped beneath it, and i said in my heart that it could never be lightened.

when this despondency was at its worst, i believed that i should die. sometimes, i thought that i would like to die at home and actually turned back on my road, that i might get there soon. at other times, i passed on farther away, from city to city, seeking i know not what, and trying to leave i know not what behind.

it is not in my power to retrace, one by one, all the weary phases of distress of mind through which i passed. there are some dreams that can only be imperfectly and vaguely described and when i oblige myself to look back on this time of my life, i seem to be recalling such a dream. i see myself passing on among the novelties of foreign towns, palaces, cathedrals, temples, pictures, castles, tombs, fantastic streets  the old abiding places of history and fancy  as a dreamer might bearing my painful load through all, and hardly conscious of the objects as they fade before me. listlessness to everything, but brooding sorrow, was the night that fell on my undisciplined heart. let me look up from it  as at last i did, thank heaven  and from its long, sad, wretched dream, to dawn.

for many months i travelled with this everdarkening cloud upon my mind. some blind reasons that i had for not returning home  reasons then struggling within me, vainly, for more distinct expression  kept me on my pilgrimage. sometimes, i had proceeded restlessly from place to place, stopping nowhere sometimes, i had lingered long in one spot. i had had no purpose, no sustaining soul within me, anywhere.

i was in switzerland. i had come out of italy, over one of the great passes of the alps, and had since wandered with a guide among the byways of the mountains. if those awful solitudes had spoken to my heart, i did not know it. i had found sublimity and wonder in the dread heights and precipices, in the roaring torrents, and the wastes of ice and snow but as yet, they had taught me nothing else.

i came, one evening before sunset, down into a valley, where i was to rest. in the course of my descent to it, by the winding track along the mountainside, from which i saw it shining far below, i think some longunwonted sense of beauty and tranquillity, some softening influence awakened by its peace, moved faintly in my breast. i remember pausing once, with a kind of sorrow that was not all oppressive, not quite despairing. i remember almost hoping that some better change was possible within me.

i came into the valley, as the evening sun was shining on the remote heights of snow, that closed it in, like eternal clouds.

the bases of the mountains forming the gorge in which the little village lay, were richly green and high above this gentler vegetation, grew forests of dark fir, cleaving the wintry snowdrift, wedgelike, and stemming the avalanche. above these, were range upon range of craggy steeps, grey rock, bright ice, and smooth verdurespecks of pasture, all gradually blending with the crowning snow. dotted here and there on the mountainsside, each tiny dot a home, were lonely wooden cottages, so dwarfed by the towering heights that they appeared too small for toys. so did even the clustered village in the valley, with its wooden bridge across the stream, where the stream tumbled over broken rocks, and roared away among the trees. in the quiet air, there was a sound of distant singing  shepherd voices but, as one bright evening cloud floated midway along the mountainsside, i could almost have believed it came from there, and was not earthly music. all at once, in this serenity, great nature spoke to me and soothed me to lay down my weary head upon the grass, and weep as i had not wept yet, since dora died

i had found a packet of letters awaiting me but a few minutes before, and had strolled out of the village to read them while my supper was making ready. other packets had missed me, and i had received none for a long time. beyond a line or two, to say that i was well, and had arrived at such a place, i had not had fortitude or constancy to write a letter since i left home.

the packet was in my hand. i opened it, and read the writing of agnes.

she was happy and useful, was prospering as she had hoped. that was all she told me of herself. the rest referred to me.

she gave me no advice she urged no duty on me she only told me, in her own fervent manner, what her trust in me was. she knew she said how such a nature as mine would turn affliction to good. she knew how trial and emotion would exalt and strengthen it. she was sure that in my every purpose i should gain a firmer and a higher tendency, through the grief i had undergone. she, who so gloried in my fame, and so looked forward to its augmentation, well knew that i would labour on. she knew that in me, sorrow could not be weakness, but must be strength. as the endurance of my childish days had done its part to make me what i was, so greater calamities would nerve me on, to be yet better than i was and so, as they had taught me, would i teach others. she commended me to god, who had taken my innocent darling to his rest and in her sisterly affection cherished me always, and was always at my side go where i would proud of what i had done, but infinitely prouder yet of what i was reserved to do.

i put the letter in my breast, and thought what had i been an hour ago when i heard the voices die away, and saw the quiet evening cloud grow dim, and all the colours in the valley fade, and the golden snow upon the mountaintops become a remote part of the pale night sky, yet felt that the night was passing from my mind, and all its shadows clearing, there was no name for the love i bore her, dearer to me, henceforward, than ever until then.

i read her letter many times. i wrote to her before i slept. i told her that i had been in sore need of her help that without her i was not, and i never had been, what she thought me but that she inspired me to be that, and i would try.

i did try. in three months more, a year would have passed since the beginning of my sorrow. i determined to make no resolutions until the expiration of those three months, but to try. i lived in that valley, and its neighbourhood, all the time.

the three months gone, i resolved to remain away from home for some time longer to settle myself for the present in switzerland, which was growing dear to me in the remembrance of that evening to resume my pen to work.

i resorted humbly whither agnes had commended me i sought out nature, never sought in vain and i admitted to my breast the human interest i had lately shrunk from. it was not long, before i had almost as many friends in the valley as in yarmouth and when i left it, before the winter set in, for geneva, and came back in the spring, their cordial greetings had a homely sound to me, although they were not conveyed in english words.

i worked early and late, patiently and hard. i wrote a story, with a purpose growing, not remotely, out of my experience, and sent it to traddles, and he arranged for its publication very advantageously for me and the tidings of my growing reputation began to reach me from travellers whom i encountered by chance.

after some rest and change, i fell to work, in my old ardent way, on a new fancy, which took strong possession of me. as i advanced in the execution of this task, i felt it more and more, and roused my utmost energies to do it well. this was my third work of fiction. it was not half written, when, in an interval of rest, i thought of returning home.

for a long time, though studying and working patiently, i had accustomed myself to robust exercise. my health, severely impaired when i left england, was quite restored. i had seen much. i had been in many countries, and i hope i had improved my store of knowledge.

i have now recalled all that i think it needful to recall here, of this term of absence  with one reservation. i have made it, thus far, with no purpose of suppressing any of my thoughts for, as i have elsewhere said, this narrative is my written memory. i have desired to keep the most secret current of my mind apart, and to the last. i enter on it now. i cannot so completely penetrate the mystery of my own heart, as to know when i began to think that i might have set its earliest and brightest hopes on agnes. i cannot say at what stage of my grief it first became associated with the reflection, that, in my wayward boyhood, i had thrown away the treasure of her love. i believe i may have heard some whisper of that distant thought, in the old unhappy loss or want of something never to be realized, of which i had been sensible. but the thought came into my mind as a new reproach and new regret, when i was left so sad and lonely in the world.

if, at that time, i had been much with her, i should, in the weakness of my desolation, have betrayed this. it was what i remotely dreaded when i was first impelled to stay away from england. i could not have borne to lose the smallest portion of her sisterly affection yet, in that betrayal, i should have set a constraint between us hitherto unknown.

i could not forget that the feeling with which she now regarded me had grown up in my own free choice and course. that if she had ever loved me with another love  and i sometimes thought the time was when she might have done so  i had cast it away. it was nothing, now, that i had accustomed myself to think of her, when we were both mere children, as one who was far removed from my wild fancies. i had bestowed my passionate tenderness upon another object and what i might have done, i had not done and what agnes was to me, i and her own noble heart had made her.

in the beginning of the change that gradually worked in me, when i tried to get a better understanding of myself and be a better man, i did glance, through some indefinite probation, to a period when i might possibly hope to cancel the mistaken past, and to be so blessed as to marry her. but, as time wore on, this shadowy prospect faded, and departed from me. if she had ever loved me, then, i should hold her the more sacred remembering the confidences i had reposed in her, her knowledge of my errant heart, the sacrifice she must have made to be my friend and sister, and the victory she had won. if she had never loved me, could i believe that she would love me now

i had always felt my weakness, in comparison with her constancy and fortitude and now i felt it more and more. whatever i might have been to her, or she to me, if i had been more worthy of her long ago, i was not now, and she was not. the time was past. i had let it go by, and had deservedly lost her.

that i suffered much in these contentions, that they filled me with unhappiness and remorse, and yet that i had a sustaining sense that it was required of me, in right and honour, to keep away from myself, with shame, the thought of turning to the dear girl in the withering of my hopes, from whom i had frivolously turned when they were bright and fresh  which consideration was at the root of every thought i had concerning her  is all equally true. i made no effort to conceal from myself, now, that i loved her, that i was devoted to her but i brought the assurance home to myself, that it was now too late, and that our longsubsisting relation must be undisturbed.

i had thought, much and often, of my doras shadowing out to me what might have happened, in those years that were destined not to try us i had considered how the things that never happen, are often as much realities to us, in their effects, as those that are accomplished. the very years she spoke of, were realities now, for my correction and would have been, one day, a little later perhaps, though we had parted in our earliest folly. i endeavoured to convert what might have been between myself and agnes, into a means of making me more selfdenying, more resolved, more conscious of myself, and my defects and errors. thus, through the reflection that it might have been, i arrived at the conviction that it could never be.

these, with their perplexities and inconsistencies, were the shifting quicksands of my mind, from the time of my departure to the time of my return home, three years afterwards. three years had elapsed since the sailing of the emigrant ship when, at that same hour of sunset, and in the same place, i stood on the deck of the packet vessel that brought me home, looking on the rosy water where i had seen the image of that ship reflected.

three years. long in the aggregate, though short as they went by.

and home was very dear to me, and agnes too  but she was not mine  she was never to be mine. she might have been, but that was past



chapter 

return

i landed in london on a wintry autumn evening. it was dark and raining, and i saw more fog and mud in a minute than i had seen in a year. i walked from the custom house to the monument before i found a coach and although the very housefronts, looking on the swollen gutters, were like old friends to me, i could not but admit that they were very dingy friends.

i have often remarked  i suppose everybody has  that ones going away from a familiar place, would seem to be the signal for change in it. as i looked out of the coach window, and observed that an old house on fishstreet hill, which had stood untouched by painter, carpenter, or bricklayer, for a century, had been pulled down in my absence and that a neighbouring street, of timehonoured insalubrity and inconvenience, was being drained and widened i half expected to find st. pauls cathedral looking older.

for some changes in the fortunes of my friends, i was prepared. my aunt had long been reestablished at dover, and traddles had begun to get into some little practice at the bar, in the very first term after my departure. he had chambers in grays inn, now and had told me, in his last letters, that he was not without hopes of being soon united to the dearest girl in the world.

they expected me home before christmas but had no idea of my returning so soon. i had purposely misled them, that i might have the pleasure of taking them by surprise. and yet, i was perverse enough to feel a chill and disappointment in receiving no welcome, and rattling, alone and silent, through the misty streets.

the wellknown shops, however, with their cheerful lights, did something for me and when i alighted at the door of the grays inn coffeehouse, i had recovered my spirits. it recalled, at first, that sodifferent time when i had put up at the golden cross, and reminded me of the changes that had come to pass since then but that was natural.

do you know where mr. traddles lives in the inn i asked the waiter, as i warmed myself by the coffeeroom fire.

holborn court, sir. number two.

mr. traddles has a rising reputation among the lawyers, i believe said i.

well, sir, returned the waiter, probably he has, sir but i am not aware of it myself.

this waiter, who was middleaged and spare, looked for help to a waiter of more authority  a stout, potential old man, with a double chin, in black breeches and stockings, who came out of a place like a churchwardens pew, at the end of the coffeeroom, where he kept company with a cashbox, a directory, a lawlist, and other books and papers.

mr. traddles, said the spare waiter. number two in the court.

the potential waiter waved him away, and turned, gravely, to me.

i was inquiring, said i, whether mr. traddles, at number two in the court, has not a rising reputation among the lawyers

never heard his name, said the waiter, in a rich husky voice.

i felt quite apologetic for traddles.

hes a young man, sure said the portentous waiter, fixing his eyes severely on me. how long has he been in the inn

not above three years, said i.

the waiter, who i supposed had lived in his churchwardens pew for forty years, could not pursue such an insignificant subject. he asked me what i would have for dinner

i felt i was in england again, and really was quite cast down on traddless account. there seemed to be no hope for him. i meekly ordered a bit of fish and a steak, and stood before the fire musing on his obscurity.

as i followed the chief waiter with my eyes, i could not help thinking that the garden in which he had gradually blown to be the flower he was, was an arduous place to rise in. it had such a prescriptive, stiffnecked, longestablished, solemn, elderly air.

i glanced about the room, which had had its sanded floor sanded, no doubt, in exactly the same manner when the chief waiter was a boy  if he ever was a boy, which appeared improbable and at the shining tables, where i saw myself reflected, in unruffled depths of old mahogany and at the lamps, without a flaw in their trimming or cleaning and at the comfortable green curtains, with their pure brass rods, snugly enclosing the boxes and at the two large coal fires, brightly burning and at the rows of decanters, burly as if with the consciousness of pipes of expensive old port wine below and both england, and the law, appeared to me to be very difficult indeed to be taken by storm. i went up to my bedroom to change my wet clothes and the vast extent of that old wainscoted apartment which was over the archway leading to the inn, i remember, and the sedate immensity of the fourpost bedstead, and the indomitable gravity of the chests of drawers, all seemed to unite in sternly frowning on the fortunes of traddles, or on any such daring youth.

i came down again to my dinner and even the slow comfort of the meal, and the orderly silence of the place  which was bare of guests, the long vacation not yet being over  were eloquent on the audacity of traddles, and his small hopes of a livelihood for twenty years to come.

i had seen nothing like this since i went away, and it quite dashed my hopes for my friend. the chief waiter had had enough of me. he came near me no more but devoted himself to an old gentleman in long gaiters, to meet whom a pint of special port seemed to come out of the cellar of its own accord, for he gave no order. the second waiter informed me, in a whisper, that this old gentleman was a retired conveyancer living in the square, and worth a mint of money, which it was expected he would leave to his laundresss daughter likewise that it was rumoured that he had a service of plate in a bureau, all tarnished with lying by, though more than one spoon and a fork had never yet been beheld in his chambers by mortal vision. by this time, i quite gave traddles up for lost and settled in my own mind that there was no hope for him.

being very anxious to see the dear old fellow, nevertheless, i dispatched my dinner, in a manner not at all calculated to raise me in the opinion of the chief waiter, and hurried out by the back way. number two in the court was soon reached and an inscription on the doorpost informing me that mr. traddles occupied a set of chambers on the top storey, i ascended the staircase. a crazy old staircase i found it to be, feebly lighted on each landing by a club headed little oil wick, dying away in a little dungeon of dirty glass.

in the course of my stumbling upstairs, i fancied i heard a pleasant sound of laughter and not the laughter of an attorney or barrister, or attorneys clerk or barristers clerk, but of two or three merry girls. happening, however, as i stopped to listen, to put my foot in a hole where the honourable society of grays inn had left a plank deficient, i fell down with some noise, and when i recovered my footing all was silent.

groping my way more carefully, for the rest of the journey, my heart beat high when i found the outer door, which had mr. traddles painted on it, open. i knocked. a considerable scuffling within ensued, but nothing else. i therefore knocked again.

a small sharplooking lad, halffootboy and halfclerk, who was very much out of breath, but who looked at me as if he defied me to prove it legally, presented himself.

is mr. traddles within i said.

yes, sir, but hes engaged.

i want to see him.

after a moments survey of me, the sharplooking lad decided to let me in and opening the door wider for that purpose, admitted me, first, into a little closet of a hall, and next into a little sittingroom where i came into the presence of my old friend also out of breath, seated at a table, and bending over papers.

good god cried traddles, looking up. its copperfield and rushed into my arms, where i held him tight.

all well, my dear traddles

all well, my dear, dear copperfield, and nothing but good news

we cried with pleasure, both of us.

my dear fellow, said traddles, rumpling his hair in his excitement, which was a most unnecessary operation, my dearest copperfield, my longlost and most welcome friend, how glad i am to see you how brown you are how glad i am upon my life and honour, i never was so rejoiced, my beloved copperfield, never

i was equally at a loss to express my emotions. i was quite unable to speak, at first.

my dear fellow said traddles. and grown so famous my glorious copperfield good gracious me, when did you come, where have you come from, what have you been doing

never pausing for an answer to anything he said, traddles, who had clapped me into an easychair by the fire, all this time impetuously stirred the fire with one hand, and pulled at my neckkerchief with the other, under some wild delusion that it was a greatcoat. without putting down the poker, he now hugged me again and i hugged him and, both laughing, and both wiping our eyes, we both sat down, and shook hands across the hearth.

to think, said traddles, that you should have been so nearly coming home as you must have been, my dear old boy, and not at the ceremony

what ceremony, my dear traddles

good gracious me cried traddles, opening his eyes in his old way. didnt you get my last letter

certainly not, if it referred to any ceremony.

why, my dear copperfield, said traddles, sticking his hair upright with both hands, and then putting his hands on my knees, i am married

married i cried joyfully.

lord bless me, yes said traddles  by the reverend horace  to sophy  down in devonshire. why, my dear boy, shes behind the window curtain look here

to my amazement, the dearest girl in the world came at that same instant, laughing and blushing, from her place of concealment. and a more cheerful, amiable, honest, happy, brightlooking bride, i believe as i could not help saying on the spot the world never saw. i kissed her as an old acquaintance should, and wished them joy with all my might of heart.

dear me, said traddles, what a delightful reunion this is you are so extremely brown, my dear copperfield god bless my soul, how happy i am

and so am i, said i.

and i am sure i am said the blushing and laughing sophy.

we are all as happy as possible said traddles. even the girls are happy. dear me, i declare i forgot them

forgot said i.

the girls, said traddles. sophys sisters. they are staying with us. they have come to have a peep at london. the fact is, when  was it you that tumbled upstairs, copperfield

it was, said i, laughing.

well then, when you tumbled upstairs, said traddles, i was romping with the girls. in point of fact, we were playing at puss in the corner. but as that wouldnt do in westminster hall, and as it wouldnt look quite professional if they were seen by a client, they decamped. and they are now  listening, i have no doubt, said traddles, glancing at the door of another room.

i am sorry, said i, laughing afresh, to have occasioned such a dispersion.

upon my word, rejoined traddles, greatly delighted, if you had seen them running away, and running back again, after you had knocked, to pick up the combs they had dropped out of their hair, and going on in the maddest manner, you wouldnt have said so. my love, will you fetch the girls

sophy tripped away, and we heard her received in the adjoining room with a peal of laughter.

really musical, isnt it, my dear copperfield said traddles.

its very agreeable to hear. it quite lights up these old rooms.

to an unfortunate bachelor of a fellow who has lived alone all his life, you know, its positively delicious. its charming. poor things, they have had a great loss in sophy  who, i do assure you, copperfield is, and ever was, the dearest girl  and it gratifies me beyond expression to find them in such good spirits. the society of girls is a very delightful thing, copperfield. its not professional, but its very delightful.

observing that he slightly faltered, and comprehending that in the goodness of his heart he was fearful of giving me some pain by what he had said, i expressed my concurrence with a heartiness that evidently relieved and pleased him greatly.

but then, said traddles, our domestic arrangements are, to say the truth, quite unprofessional altogether, my dear copperfield.

even sophys being here, is unprofessional. and we have no other place of abode. we have put to sea in a cockboat, but we are quite prepared to rough it. and sophys an extraordinary manager youll be surprised how those girls are stowed away. i am sure i hardly know how its done

are many of the young ladies with you i inquired.

the eldest, the beauty is here, said traddles, in a low confidential voice, caroline. and sarahs here  the one i mentioned to you as having something the matter with her spine, you know. immensely better and the two youngest that sophy educated are with us. and louisas here.

indeed cried i.

yes, said traddles. now the whole set  i mean the chambers  is only three rooms but sophy arranges for the girls in the most wonderful way, and they sleep as comfortably as possible. three in that room, said traddles, pointing. two in that.

i could not help glancing round, in search of the accommodation remaining for mr. and mrs. traddles. traddles understood me.

well said traddles, we are prepared to rough it, as i said just now, and we did improvise a bed last week, upon the floor here.

but theres a little room in the roof  a very nice room, when youre up there  which sophy papered herself, to surprise me and thats our room at present. its a capital little gipsy sort of place. theres quite a view from it.

and you are happily married at last, my dear traddles said i.

how rejoiced i am

thank you, my dear copperfield, said traddles, as we shook hands once more. yes, i am as happy as its possible to be. theres your old friend, you see, said traddles, nodding triumphantly at the flowerpot and stand and theres the table with the marble top all the other furniture is plain and serviceable, you perceive. and as to plate, lord bless you, we havent so much as a teaspoon.

all to be earned said i, cheerfully.

exactly so, replied traddles, all to be earned. of course we have something in the shape of teaspoons, because we stir our tea.

but theyre britannia metal.

the silver will be the brighter when it comes, said i.

the very thing we say cried traddles. you see, my dear copperfield, falling again into the low confidential tone, after i had delivered my argument in doe dem. jipes versus wigziell, which did me great service with the profession, i went down into devonshire, and had some serious conversation in private with the reverend horace. i dwelt upon the fact that sophy  who i do assure you, copperfield, is the dearest girl 

i am certain she is said i.

she is, indeed rejoined traddles. but i am afraid i am wandering from the subject. did i mention the reverend horace

you said that you dwelt upon the fact 

true upon the fact that sophy and i had been engaged for a long period, and that sophy, with the permission of her parents, was more than content to take me  in short, said traddles, with his old frank smile, on our present britanniametal footing. very well. i then proposed to the reverend horace  who is a most excellent clergyman, copperfield, and ought to be a bishop or at least ought to have enough to live upon, without pinching himself  that if i could turn the corner, say of two hundred and fifty pounds, in one year and could see my way pretty clearly to that, or something better, next year and could plainly furnish a little place like this, besides then, and in that case, sophy and i should be united. i took the liberty of representing that we had been patient for a good many years and that the circumstance of sophys being extraordinarily useful at home, ought not to operate with her affectionate parents, against her establishment in life  dont you see

certainly it ought not, said i.

i am glad you think so, copperfield, rejoined traddles, because, without any imputation on the reverend horace, i do think parents, and brothers, and so forth, are sometimes rather selfish in such cases. well i also pointed out, that my most earnest desire was, to be useful to the family and that if i got on in the world, and anything should happen to him  i refer to the reverend horace 

i understand, said i.

 or to mrs. crewler  it would be the utmost gratification of my wishes, to be a parent to the girls. he replied in a most admirable manner, exceedingly flattering to my feelings, and undertook to obtain the consent of mrs. crewler to this arrangement. they had a dreadful time of it with her. it mounted from her legs into her chest, and then into her head 

what mounted i asked.

her grief, replied traddles, with a serious look. her feelings generally. as i mentioned on a former occasion, she is a very superior woman, but has lost the use of her limbs. whatever occurs to harass her, usually settles in her legs but on this occasion it mounted to the chest, and then to the head, and, in short, pervaded the whole system in a most alarming manner. however, they brought her through it by unremitting and affectionate attention and we were married yesterday six weeks. you have no idea what a monster i felt, copperfield, when i saw the whole family crying and fainting away in every direction mrs. crewler couldnt see me before we left  couldnt forgive me, then, for depriving her of her child  but she is a good creature, and has done so since. i had a delightful letter from her, only this morning.

and in short, my dear friend, said i, you feel as blest as you deserve to feel

oh thats your partiality laughed traddles. but, indeed, i am in a most enviable state. i work hard, and read law insatiably.

i get up at five every morning, and dont mind it at all. i hide the girls in the daytime, and make merry with them in the evening.

and i assure you i am quite sorry that they are going home on tuesday, which is the day before the first day of michaelmas term.

but here, said traddles, breaking off in his confidence, and speaking aloud, are the girls mr. copperfield, miss crewler  miss sarah  miss louisa  margaret and lucy

they were a perfect nest of roses they looked so wholesome and fresh. they were all pretty, and miss caroline was very handsome but there was a loving, cheerful, fireside quality in sophys bright looks, which was better than that, and which assured me that my friend had chosen well. we all sat round the fire while the sharp boy, who i now divined had lost his breath in putting the papers out, cleared them away again, and produced the teathings.

after that, he retired for the night, shutting the outer door upon us with a bang. mrs. traddles, with perfect pleasure and composure beaming from her household eyes, having made the tea, then quietly made the toast as she sat in a corner by the fire.

she had seen agnes, she told me while she was toasting. tom had taken her down into kent for a wedding trip, and there she had seen my aunt, too and both my aunt and agnes were well, and they had all talked of nothing but me. tom had never had me out of his thoughts, she really believed, all the time i had been away. tom was the authority for everything. tom was evidently the idol of her life never to be shaken on his pedestal by any commotion always to be believed in, and done homage to with the whole faith of her heart, come what might.

the deference which both she and traddles showed towards the beauty, pleased me very much. i dont know that i thought it very reasonable but i thought it very delightful, and essentially a part of their character. if traddles ever for an instant missed the teaspoons that were still to be won, i have no doubt it was when he handed the beauty her tea. if his sweettempered wife could have got up any selfassertion against anyone, i am satisfied it could only have been because she was the beautys sister. a few slight indications of a rather petted and capricious manner, which i observed in the beauty, were manifestly considered, by traddles and his wife, as her birthright and natural endowment. if she had been born a queen bee, and they labouring bees, they could not have been more satisfied of that.

but their selfforgetfulness charmed me. their pride in these girls, and their submission of themselves to all their whims, was the pleasantest little testimony to their own worth i could have desired to see. if traddles were addressed as a darling, once in the course of that evening and besought to bring something here, or carry something there, or take something up, or put something down, or find something, or fetch something, he was so addressed, by one or other of his sistersinlaw, at least twelve times in an hour. neither could they do anything without sophy. somebodys hair fell down, and nobody but sophy could put it up. somebody forgot how a particular tune went, and nobody but sophy could hum that tune right. somebody wanted to recall the name of a place in devonshire, and only sophy knew it. something was wanted to be written home, and sophy alone could be trusted to write before breakfast in the morning. somebody broke down in a piece of knitting, and no one but sophy was able to put the defaulter in the right direction. they were entire mistresses of the place, and sophy and traddles waited on them. how many children sophy could have taken care of in her time, i cant imagine but she seemed to be famous for knowing every sort of song that ever was addressed to a child in the english tongue and she sang dozens to order with the clearest little voice in the world, one after another every sister issuing directions for a different tune, and the beauty generally striking in last, so that i was quite fascinated. the best of all was, that, in the midst of their exactions, all the sisters had a great tenderness and respect both for sophy and traddles. i am sure, when i took my leave, and traddles was coming out to walk with me to the coffeehouse, i thought i had never seen an obstinate head of hair, or any other head of hair, rolling about in such a shower of kisses.

altogether, it was a scene i could not help dwelling on with pleasure, for a long time after i got back and had wished traddles good night. if i had beheld a thousand roses blowing in a top set of chambers, in that withered grays inn, they could not have brightened it half so much. the idea of those devonshire girls, among the dry lawstationers and the attorneys offices and of the tea and toast, and childrens songs, in that grim atmosphere of pounce and parchment, redtape, dusty wafers, inkjars, brief and draft paper, law reports, writs, declarations, and bills of costs seemed almost as pleasantly fanciful as if i had dreamed that the sultans famous family had been admitted on the roll of attorneys, and had brought the talking bird, the singing tree, and the golden water into grays inn hall. somehow, i found that i had taken leave of traddles for the night, and come back to the coffeehouse, with a great change in my despondency about him. i began to think he would get on, in spite of all the many orders of chief waiters in england.

drawing a chair before one of the coffeeroom fires to think about him at my leisure, i gradually fell from the consideration of his happiness to tracing prospects in the livecoals, and to thinking, as they broke and changed, of the principal vicissitudes and separations that had marked my life. i had not seen a coal fire, since i had left england three years ago though many a wood fire had i watched, as it crumbled into hoary ashes, and mingled with the feathery heap upon the hearth, which not inaptly figured to me, in my despondency, my own dead hopes.

i could think of the past now, gravely, but not bitterly and could contemplate the future in a brave spirit. home, in its best sense, was for me no more. she in whom i might have inspired a dearer love, i had taught to be my sister. she would marry, and would have new claimants on her tenderness and in doing it, would never know the love for her that had grown up in my heart. it was right that i should pay the forfeit of my headlong passion. what i reaped, i had sown.

i was thinking. and had i truly disciplined my heart to this, and could i resolutely bear it, and calmly hold the place in her home which she had calmly held in mine,  when i found my eyes resting on a countenance that might have arisen out of the fire, in its association with my early remembrances.

little mr. chillip the doctor, to whose good offices i was indebted in the very first chapter of this history, sat reading a newspaper in the shadow of an opposite corner. he was tolerably stricken in years by this time but, being a mild, meek, calm little man, had worn so easily, that i thought he looked at that moment just as he might have looked when he sat in our parlour, waiting for me to be born.

mr. chillip had left blunderstone six or seven years ago, and i had never seen him since. he sat placidly perusing the newspaper, with his little head on one side, and a glass of warm sherry negus at his elbow. he was so extremely conciliatory in his manner that he seemed to apologize to the very newspaper for taking the liberty of reading it.

i walked up to where he was sitting, and said, how do you do, mr.

chillip

he was greatly fluttered by this unexpected address from a stranger, and replied, in his slow way, i thank you, sir, you are very good. thank you, sir. i hope you are well.

you dont remember me said i.

well, sir, returned mr. chillip, smiling very meekly, and shaking his head as he surveyed me, i have a kind of an impression that something in your countenance is familiar to me, sir but i couldnt lay my hand upon your name, really.

and yet you knew it, long before i knew it myself, i returned.

did i indeed, sir said mr. chillip. is it possible that i had the honour, sir, of officiating when 

yes, said i.

dear me cried mr. chillip. but no doubt you are a good deal changed since then, sir

probably, said i.

well, sir, observed mr. chillip, i hope youll excuse me, if i am compelled to ask the favour of your name

on my telling him my name, he was really moved. he quite shook hands with me  which was a violent proceeding for him, his usual course being to slide a tepid little fishslice, an inch or two in advance of his hip, and evince the greatest discomposure when anybody grappled with it. even now, he put his hand in his coatpocket as soon as he could disengage it, and seemed relieved when he had got it safe back.

dear me, sir said mr. chillip, surveying me with his head on one side. and its mr. copperfield, is it well, sir, i think i should have known you, if i had taken the liberty of looking more closely at you. theres a strong resemblance between you and your poor father, sir.

i never had the happiness of seeing my father, i observed.

very true, sir, said mr. chillip, in a soothing tone. and very much to be deplored it was, on all accounts we are not ignorant, sir, said mr. chillip, slowly shaking his little head again, down in our part of the country, of your fame. there must be great excitement here, sir, said mr. chillip, tapping himself on the forehead with his forefinger. you must find it a trying occupation, sir

what is your part of the country now i asked, seating myself near him.

i am established within a few miles of bury st. edmunds, sir, said mr. chillip. mrs. chillip, coming into a little property in that neighbourhood, under her fathers will, i bought a practice down there, in which you will be glad to hear i am doing well. my daughter is growing quite a tall lass now, sir, said mr. chillip, giving his little head another little shake. her mother let down two tucks in her frocks only last week. such is time, you see, sir

as the little man put his now empty glass to his lips, when he made this reflection, i proposed to him to have it refilled, and i would keep him company with another. well, sir, he returned, in his slow way, its more than i am accustomed to but i cant deny myself the pleasure of your conversation. it seems but yesterday that i had the honour of attending you in the measles. you came through them charmingly, sir

i acknowledged this compliment, and ordered the negus, which was soon produced. quite an uncommon dissipation said mr. chillip, stirring it, but i cant resist so extraordinary an occasion. you have no family, sir

i shook my head.

i was aware that you sustained a bereavement, sir, some time ago, said mr. chillip. i heard it from your fatherinlaws sister.

very decided character there, sir

why, yes, said i, decided enough. where did you see her, mr.

chillip

are you not aware, sir, returned mr. chillip, with his placidest smile, that your fatherinlaw is again a neighbour of mine

no, said i.

he is indeed, sir said mr. chillip. married a young lady of that part, with a very good little property, poor thing.  and this action of the brain now, sir dont you find it fatigue you said mr. chillip, looking at me like an admiring robin.

i waived that question, and returned to the murdstones. i was aware of his being married again. do you attend the family i asked.

not regularly. i have been called in, he replied. strong phrenological developments of the organ of firmness, in mr.

murdstone and his sister, sir.

i replied with such an expressive look, that mr. chillip was emboldened by that, and the negus together, to give his head several short shakes, and thoughtfully exclaim, ah, dear me we remember old times, mr. copperfield

and the brother and sister are pursuing their old course, are they said i.

well, sir, replied mr. chillip, a medical man, being so much in families, ought to have neither eyes nor ears for anything but his profession. still, i must say, they are very severe, sir both as to this life and the next.

the next will be regulated without much reference to them, i dare say, i returned what are they doing as to this

mr. chillip shook his head, stirred his negus, and sipped it.

she was a charming woman, sir he observed in a plaintive manner.

the present mrs. murdstone

a charming woman indeed, sir, said mr. chillip as amiable, i am sure, as it was possible to be mrs. chillips opinion is, that her spirit has been entirely broken since her marriage, and that she is all but melancholy mad. and the ladies, observed mr. chillip, timorously, are great observers, sir.

i suppose she was to be subdued and broken to their detestable mould, heaven help her said i. and she has been.

well, sir, there were violent quarrels at first, i assure you, said mr. chillip but she is quite a shadow now. would it be considered forward if i was to say to you, sir, in confidence, that since the sister came to help, the brother and sister between them have nearly reduced her to a state of imbecility

i told him i could easily believe it.

i have no hesitation in saying, said mr. chillip, fortifying himself with another sip of negus, between you and me, sir, that her mother died of it  or that tyranny, gloom, and worry have made mrs. murdstone nearly imbecile. she was a lively young woman, sir, before marriage, and their gloom and austerity destroyed her. they go about with her, now, more like her keepers than her husband and sisterinlaw. that was mrs. chillips remark to me, only last week. and i assure you, sir, the ladies are great observers. mrs.

chillip herself is a great observer

does he gloomily profess to be i am ashamed to use the word in such association religious still i inquired.

you anticipate, sir, said mr. chillip, his eyelids getting quite red with the unwonted stimulus in which he was indulging. one of mrs. chillips most impressive remarks. mrs. chillip, he proceeded, in the calmest and slowest manner, quite electrified me, by pointing out that mr. murdstone sets up an image of himself, and calls it the divine nature. you might have knocked me down on the flat of my back, sir, with the feather of a pen, i assure you, when mrs. chillip said so. the ladies are great observers, sir

intuitively, said i, to his extreme delight.

i am very happy to receive such support in my opinion, sir, he rejoined. it is not often that i venture to give a nonmedical opinion, i assure you. mr. murdstone delivers public addresses sometimes, and it is said,  in short, sir, it is said by mrs.

chillip,  that the darker tyrant he has lately been, the more ferocious is his doctrine.

i believe mrs. chillip to be perfectly right, said i.

mrs. chillip does go so far as to say, pursued the meekest of little men, much encouraged, that what such people miscall their religion, is a vent for their bad humours and arrogance. and do you know i must say, sir, he continued, mildly laying his head on one side, that i dont find authority for mr. and miss murdstone in the new testament

i never found it either said i.

in the meantime, sir, said mr. chillip, they are much disliked and as they are very free in consigning everybody who dislikes them to perdition, we really have a good deal of perdition going on in our neighbourhood however, as mrs. chillip says, sir, they undergo a continual punishment for they are turned inward, to feed upon their own hearts, and their own hearts are very bad feeding. now, sir, about that brain of yours, if youll excuse my returning to it. dont you expose it to a good deal of excitement, sir

i found it not difficult, in the excitement of mr. chillips own brain, under his potations of negus, to divert his attention from this topic to his own affairs, on which, for the next halfhour, he was quite loquacious giving me to understand, among other pieces of information, that he was then at the grays inn coffeehouse to lay his professional evidence before a commission of lunacy, touching the state of mind of a patient who had become deranged from excessive drinking.

and i assure you, sir, he said, i am extremely nervous on such occasions. i could not support being what is called bullied, sir.

it would quite unman me. do you know it was some time before i recovered the conduct of that alarming lady, on the night of your birth, mr. copperfield

i told him that i was going down to my aunt, the dragon of that night, early in the morning and that she was one of the most tenderhearted and excellent of women, as he would know full well if he knew her better. the mere notion of the possibility of his ever seeing her again, appeared to terrify him. he replied with a small pale smile, is she so, indeed, sir really and almost immediately called for a candle, and went to bed, as if he were not quite safe anywhere else. he did not actually stagger under the negus but i should think his placid little pulse must have made two or three more beats in a minute, than it had done since the great night of my aunts disappointment, when she struck at him with her bonnet.

thoroughly tired, i went to bed too, at midnight passed the next day on the dover coach burst safe and sound into my aunts old parlour while she was at tea she wore spectacles now and was received by her, and mr. dick, and dear old peggotty, who acted as housekeeper, with open arms and tears of joy. my aunt was mightily amused, when we began to talk composedly, by my account of my meeting with mr. chillip, and of his holding her in such dread remembrance and both she and peggotty had a great deal to say about my poor mothers second husband, and that murdering woman of a sister,  on whom i think no pain or penalty would have induced my aunt to bestow any christian or proper name, or any other designation.



chapter 

agnes

my aunt and i, when we were left alone, talked far into the night.

how the emigrants never wrote home, otherwise than cheerfully and hopefully how mr. micawber had actually remitted divers small sums of money, on account of those pecuniary liabilities, in reference to which he had been so businesslike as between man and man how janet, returning into my aunts service when she came back to dover, had finally carried out her renunciation of mankind by entering into wedlock with a thriving tavernkeeper and how my aunt had finally set her seal on the same great principle, by aiding and abetting the bride, and crowning the marriageceremony with her presence were among our topics  already more or less familiar to me through the letters i had had. mr. dick, as usual, was not forgotten. my aunt informed me how he incessantly occupied himself in copying everything he could lay his hands on, and kept king charles the first at a respectful distance by that semblance of employment how it was one of the main joys and rewards of her life that he was free and happy, instead of pining in monotonous restraint and how as a novel general conclusion nobody but she could ever fully know what he was.

and when, trot, said my aunt, patting the back of my hand, as we sat in our old way before the fire, when are you going over to canterbury

i shall get a horse, and ride over tomorrow morning, aunt, unless you will go with me

no said my aunt, in her short abrupt way. i mean to stay where i am.

then, i should ride, i said. i could not have come through canterbury today without stopping, if i had been coming to anyone but her.

she was pleased, but answered, tut, trot my old bones would have kept till tomorrow and softly patted my hand again, as i sat looking thoughtfully at the fire.

thoughtfully, for i could not be here once more, and so near agnes, without the revival of those regrets with which i had so long been occupied. softened regrets they might be, teaching me what i had failed to learn when my younger life was all before me, but not the less regrets. oh, trot, i seemed to hear my aunt say once more and i understood her better now  blind, blind, blind

we both kept silence for some minutes. when i raised my eyes, i found that she was steadily observant of me. perhaps she had followed the current of my mind for it seemed to me an easy one to track now, wilful as it had been once.

you will find her father a whitehaired old man, said my aunt, though a better man in all other respects  a reclaimed man.

neither will you find him measuring all human interests, and joys, and sorrows, with his one poor little inchrule now. trust me, child, such things must shrink very much, before they can be measured off in that way.

indeed they must, said i.

you will find her, pursued my aunt, as good, as beautiful, as earnest, as disinterested, as she has always been. if i knew higher praise, trot, i would bestow it on her.

there was no higher praise for her no higher reproach for me. oh, how had i strayed so far away if she trains the young girls whom she has about her, to be like herself, said my aunt, earnest even to the filling of her eyes with tears, heaven knows, her life will be well employed useful and happy, as she said that day how could she be otherwise than useful and happy

has agnes any  i was thinking aloud, rather than speaking.

well hey any what said my aunt, sharply.

any lover, said i.

a score, cried my aunt, with a kind of indignant pride. she might have married twenty times, my dear, since you have been gone

no doubt, said i. no doubt. but has she any lover who is worthy of her agnes could care for no other.

my aunt sat musing for a little while, with her chin upon her hand.

slowly raising her eyes to mine, she said i suspect she has an attachment, trot.

a prosperous one said i.

trot, returned my aunt gravely, i cant say. i have no right to tell you even so much. she has never confided it to me, but i suspect it.

she looked so attentively and anxiously at me i even saw her tremble, that i felt now, more than ever, that she had followed my late thoughts. i summoned all the resolutions i had made, in all those many days and nights, and all those many conflicts of my heart.

if it should be so, i began, and i hope it is

i dont know that it is, said my aunt curtly. you must not be ruled by my suspicions. you must keep them secret. they are very slight, perhaps. i have no right to speak.

if it should be so, i repeated, agnes will tell me at her own good time. a sister to whom i have confided so much, aunt, will not be reluctant to confide in me.

my aunt withdrew her eyes from mine, as slowly as she had turned them upon me and covered them thoughtfully with her hand. by and by she put her other hand on my shoulder and so we both sat, looking into the past, without saying another word, until we parted for the night.

i rode away, early in the morning, for the scene of my old schooldays. i cannot say that i was yet quite happy, in the hope that i was gaining a victory over myself even in the prospect of so soon looking on her face again.

the wellremembered ground was soon traversed, and i came into the quiet streets, where every stone was a boys book to me. i went on foot to the old house, and went away with a heart too full to enter. i returned and looking, as i passed, through the low window of the turretroom where first uriah heep, and afterwards mr. micawber, had been wont to sit, saw that it was a little parlour now, and that there was no office. otherwise the staid old house was, as to its cleanliness and order, still just as it had been when i first saw it. i requested the new maid who admitted me, to tell miss wickfield that a gentleman who waited on her from a friend abroad, was there and i was shown up the grave old staircase cautioned of the steps i knew so well, into the unchanged drawingroom. the books that agnes and i had read together, were on their shelves and the desk where i had laboured at my lessons, many a night, stood yet at the same old corner of the table. all the little changes that had crept in when the heeps were there, were changed again. everything was as it used to be, in the happy time.

i stood in a window, and looked across the ancient street at the opposite houses, recalling how i had watched them on wet afternoons, when i first came there and how i had used to speculate about the people who appeared at any of the windows, and had followed them with my eyes up and down stairs, while women went clicking along the pavement in pattens, and the dull rain fell in slanting lines, and poured out of the waterspout yonder, and flowed into the road. the feeling with which i used to watch the tramps, as they came into the town on those wet evenings, at dusk, and limped past, with their bundles drooping over their shoulders at the ends of sticks, came freshly back to me fraught, as then, with the smell of damp earth, and wet leaves and briar, and the sensation of the very airs that blew upon me in my own toilsome journey.

the opening of the little door in the panelled wall made me start and turn. her beautiful serene eyes met mine as she came towards me. she stopped and laid her hand upon her bosom, and i caught her in my arms.

agnes my dear girl i have come too suddenly upon you.

no, no i am so rejoiced to see you, trotwood

dear agnes, the happiness it is to me, to see you once again

i folded her to my heart, and, for a little while, we were both silent. presently we sat down, side by side and her angelface was turned upon me with the welcome i had dreamed of, waking and sleeping, for whole years.

she was so true, she was so beautiful, she was so good,  i owed her so much gratitude, she was so dear to me, that i could find no utterance for what i felt. i tried to bless her, tried to thank her, tried to tell her as i had often done in letters what an influence she had upon me but all my efforts were in vain. my love and joy were dumb.

with her own sweet tranquillity, she calmed my agitation led me back to the time of our parting spoke to me of emily, whom she had visited, in secret, many times spoke to me tenderly of doras grave. with the unerring instinct of her noble heart, she touched the chords of my memory so softly and harmoniously, that not one jarred within me i could listen to the sorrowful, distant music, and desire to shrink from nothing it awoke. how could i, when, blended with it all, was her dear self, the better angel of my life and you, agnes, i said, by and by. tell me of yourself. you have hardly ever told me of your own life, in all this lapse of time

what should i tell she answered, with her radiant smile. papa is well. you see us here, quiet in our own home our anxieties set at rest, our home restored to us and knowing that, dear trotwood, you know all.

all, agnes said i.

she looked at me, with some fluttering wonder in her face.

is there nothing else, sister i said.

her colour, which had just now faded, returned, and faded again.

she smiled with a quiet sadness, i thought and shook her head.

i had sought to lead her to what my aunt had hinted at for, sharply painful to me as it must be to receive that confidence, i was to discipline my heart, and do my duty to her. i saw, however, that she was uneasy, and i let it pass.

you have much to do, dear agnes

with my school said she, looking up again, in all her bright composure.

yes. it is laborious, is it not

the labour is so pleasant, she returned, that it is scarcely grateful in me to call it by that name.

nothing good is difficult to you, said i.

her colour came and went once more and once more, as she bent her head, i saw the same sad smile.

you will wait and see papa, said agnes, cheerfully, and pass the day with us perhaps you will sleep in your own room we always call it yours.

i could not do that, having promised to ride back to my aunts at night but i would pass the day there, joyfully.

i must be a prisoner for a little while, said agnes, but here are the old books, trotwood, and the old music.

even the old flowers are here, said i, looking round or the old kinds.

i have found a pleasure, returned agnes, smiling, while you have been absent, in keeping everything as it used to be when we were children. for we were very happy then, i think.

heaven knows we were said i.

and every little thing that has reminded me of my brother, said agnes, with her cordial eyes turned cheerfully upon me, has been a welcome companion. even this, showing me the baskettrifle, full of keys, still hanging at her side, seems to jingle a kind of old tune

she smiled again, and went out at the door by which she had come.

it was for me to guard this sisterly affection with religious care.

it was all that i had left myself, and it was a treasure. if i once shook the foundations of the sacred confidence and usage, in virtue of which it was given to me, it was lost, and could never be recovered. i set this steadily before myself. the better i loved her, the more it behoved me never to forget it.

i walked through the streets and, once more seeing my old adversary the butcher  now a constable, with his staff hanging up in the shop  went down to look at the place where i had fought him and there meditated on miss shepherd and the eldest miss larkins, and all the idle loves and likings, and dislikings, of that time. nothing seemed to have survived that time but agnes and she, ever a star above me, was brighter and higher.

when i returned, mr. wickfield had come home, from a garden he had, a couple of miles or so out of town, where he now employed himself almost every day. i found him as my aunt had described him. we sat down to dinner, with some halfdozen little girls and he seemed but the shadow of his handsome picture on the wall.

the tranquillity and peace belonging, of old, to that quiet ground in my memory, pervaded it again. when dinner was done, mr.

wickfield taking no wine, and i desiring none, we went upstairs where agnes and her little charges sang and played, and worked.

after tea the children left us and we three sat together, talking of the bygone days.

my part in them, said mr. wickfield, shaking his white head, has much matter for regret  for deep regret, and deep contrition, trotwood, you well know. but i would not cancel it, if it were in my power.

i could readily believe that, looking at the face beside him.

i should cancel with it, he pursued, such patience and devotion, such fidelity, such a childs love, as i must not forget, no even to forget myself.

i understand you, sir, i softly said. i hold it  i have always held it  in veneration.

but no one knows, not even you, he returned, how much she has done, how much she has undergone, how hard she has striven. dear agnes

she had put her hand entreatingly on his arm, to stop him and was very, very pale.

well, well he said with a sigh, dismissing, as i then saw, some trial she had borne, or was yet to bear, in connexion with what my aunt had told me. well i have never told you, trotwood, of her mother. has anyone

never, sir.

its not much  though it was much to suffer. she married me in opposition to her fathers wish, and he renounced her. she prayed him to forgive her, before my agnes came into this world. he was a very hard man, and her mother had long been dead. he repulsed her. he broke her heart.

agnes leaned upon his shoulder, and stole her arm about his neck.

she had an affectionate and gentle heart, he said and it was broken. i knew its tender nature very well. no one could, if i did not. she loved me dearly, but was never happy. she was always labouring, in secret, under this distress and being delicate and downcast at the time of his last repulse  for it was not the first, by many  pined away and died. she left me agnes, two weeks old and the grey hair that you recollect me with, when you first came. he kissed agnes on her cheek.

my love for my dear child was a diseased love, but my mind was all unhealthy then. i say no more of that. i am not speaking of myself, trotwood, but of her mother, and of her. if i give you any clue to what i am, or to what i have been, you will unravel it, i know. what agnes is, i need not say. i have always read something of her poor mothers story, in her character and so i tell it you tonight, when we three are again together, after such great changes. i have told it all.

his bowed head, and her angelface and filial duty, derived a more pathetic meaning from it than they had had before. if i had wanted anything by which to mark this night of our reunion, i should have found it in this.

agnes rose up from her fathers side, before long and going softly to her piano, played some of the old airs to which we had often listened in that place.

have you any intention of going away again agnes asked me, as i was standing by.

what does my sister say to that

i hope not.

then i have no such intention, agnes.

i think you ought not, trotwood, since you ask me, she said, mildly. your growing reputation and success enlarge your power of doing good and if i could spare my brother, with her eyes upon me, perhaps the time could not.

what i am, you have made me, agnes. you should know best.

i made you, trotwood

yes agnes, my dear girl i said, bending over her. i tried to tell you, when we met today, something that has been in my thoughts since dora died. you remember, when you came down to me in our little room  pointing upward, agnes

oh, trotwood she returned, her eyes filled with tears. so loving, so confiding, and so young can i ever forget

as you were then, my sister, i have often thought since, you have ever been to me. ever pointing upward, agnes ever leading me to something better ever directing me to higher things

she only shook her head through her tears i saw the same sad quiet smile.

and i am so grateful to you for it, agnes, so bound to you, that there is no name for the affection of my heart. i want you to know, yet dont know how to tell you, that all my life long i shall look up to you, and be guided by you, as i have been through the darkness that is past. whatever betides, whatever new ties you may form, whatever changes may come between us, i shall always look to you, and love you, as i do now, and have always done. you will always be my solace and resource, as you have always been. until i die, my dearest sister, i shall see you always before me, pointing upward

she put her hand in mine, and told me she was proud of me, and of what i said although i praised her very far beyond her worth.

then she went on softly playing, but without removing her eyes from me.

do you know, what i have heard tonight, agnes, said i, strangely seems to be a part of the feeling with which i regarded you when i saw you first  with which i sat beside you in my rough schooldays

you knew i had no mother, she replied with a smile, and felt kindly towards me.

more than that, agnes, i knew, almost as if i had known this story, that there was something inexplicably gentle and softened, surrounding you something that might have been sorrowful in someone else as i can now understand it was, but was not so in you.

she softly played on, looking at me still.

will you laugh at my cherishing such fancies, agnes

no

or at my saying that i really believe i felt, even then, that you could be faithfully affectionate against all discouragement, and never cease to be so, until you ceased to live  will you laugh at such a dream

oh, no oh, no

for an instant, a distressful shadow crossed her face but, even in the start it gave me, it was gone and she was playing on, and looking at me with her own calm smile.

as i rode back in the lonely night, the wind going by me like a restless memory, i thought of this, and feared she was not happy.

i was not happy but, thus far, i had faithfully set the seal upon the past, and, thinking of her, pointing upward, thought of her as pointing to that sky above me, where, in the mystery to come, i might yet love her with a love unknown on earth, and tell her what the strife had been within me when i loved her here.



chapter 

i am shown two interesting penitents

for a time  at all events until my book should be completed, which would be the work of several months  i took up my abode in my aunts house at dover and there, sitting in the window from which i had looked out at the moon upon the sea, when that roof first gave me shelter, i quietly pursued my task.

in pursuance of my intention of referring to my own fictions only when their course should incidentally connect itself with the progress of my story, i do not enter on the aspirations, the delights, anxieties, and triumphs of my art. that i truly devoted myself to it with my strongest earnestness, and bestowed upon it every energy of my soul, i have already said. if the books i have written be of any worth, they will supply the rest. i shall otherwise have written to poor purpose, and the rest will be of interest to no one.

occasionally, i went to london to lose myself in the swarm of life there, or to consult with traddles on some business point. he had managed for me, in my absence, with the soundest judgement and my worldly affairs were prospering. as my notoriety began to bring upon me an enormous quantity of letters from people of whom i had no knowledge  chiefly about nothing, and extremely difficult to answer  i agreed with traddles to have my name painted up on his door. there, the devoted postman on that beat delivered bushels of letters for me and there, at intervals, i laboured through them, like a home secretary of state without the salary.

among this correspondence, there dropped in, every now and then, an obliging proposal from one of the numerous outsiders always lurking about the commons, to practise under cover of my name if i would take the necessary steps remaining to make a proctor of myself, and pay me a percentage on the profits. but i declined these offers being already aware that there were plenty of such covert practitioners in existence, and considering the commons quite bad enough, without my doing anything to make it worse.

the girls had gone home, when my name burst into bloom on traddless door and the sharp boy looked, all day, as if he had never heard of sophy, shut up in a back room, glancing down from her work into a sooty little strip of garden with a pump in it.

but there i always found her, the same bright housewife often humming her devonshire ballads when no strange foot was coming up the stairs, and blunting the sharp boy in his official closet with melody.

i wondered, at first, why i so often found sophy writing in a copybook and why she always shut it up when i appeared, and hurried it into the tabledrawer. but the secret soon came out.

one day, traddles who had just come home through the drizzling sleet from court took a paper out of his desk, and asked me what i thought of that handwriting oh, dont, tom cried sophy, who was warming his slippers before the fire.

my dear, returned tom, in a delighted state, why not what do you say to that writing, copperfield

its extraordinarily legal and formal, said i. i dont think i ever saw such a stiff hand.

not like a ladys hand, is it said traddles.

a ladys i repeated. bricks and mortar are more like a ladys hand

traddles broke into a rapturous laugh, and informed me that it was sophys writing that sophy had vowed and declared he would need a copyingclerk soon, and she would be that clerk that she had acquired this hand from a pattern and that she could throw off  i forget how many folios an hour. sophy was very much confused by my being told all this, and said that when tom was made a judge he wouldnt be so ready to proclaim it. which tom denied averring that he should always be equally proud of it, under all circumstances.

what a thoroughly good and charming wife she is, my dear traddles said i, when she had gone away, laughing.

my dear copperfield, returned traddles, she is, without any exception, the dearest girl the way she manages this place her punctuality, domestic knowledge, economy, and order her cheerfulness, copperfield

indeed, you have reason to commend her i returned. you are a happy fellow. i believe you make yourselves, and each other, two of the happiest people in the world.

i am sure we are two of the happiest people, returned traddles.

i admit that, at all events. bless my soul, when i see her getting up by candlelight on these dark mornings, busying herself in the days arrangements, going out to market before the clerks come into the inn, caring for no weather, devising the most capital little dinners out of the plainest materials, making puddings and pies, keeping everything in its right place, always so neat and ornamental herself, sitting up at night with me if its ever so late, sweettempered and encouraging always, and all for me, i positively sometimes cant believe it, copperfield

he was tender of the very slippers she had been warming, as he put them on, and stretched his feet enjoyingly upon the fender.

i positively sometimes cant believe it, said traddles. then our pleasures dear me, they are inexpensive, but they are quite wonderful when we are at home here, of an evening, and shut the outer door, and draw those curtains  which she made  where could we be more snug when its fine, and we go out for a walk in the evening, the streets abound in enjoyment for us. we look into the glittering windows of the jewellers shops and i show sophy which of the diamondeyed serpents, coiled up on white satin rising grounds, i would give her if i could afford it and sophy shows me which of the gold watches that are capped and jewelled and engineturned, and possessed of the horizontal leverescapemovement, and all sorts of things, she would buy for me if she could afford it and we pick out the spoons and forks, fishslices, butterknives, and sugartongs, we should both prefer if we could both afford it and really we go away as if we had got them then, when we stroll into the squares, and great streets, and see a house to let, sometimes we look up at it, and say, how would that do, if i was made a judge and we parcel it out  such a room for us, such rooms for the girls, and so forth until we settle to our satisfaction that it would do, or it wouldnt do, as the case may be. sometimes, we go at halfprice to the pit of the theatre  the very smell of which is cheap, in my opinion, at the money  and there we thoroughly enjoy the play which sophy believes every word of, and so do i. in walking home, perhaps we buy a little bit of something at a cooksshop, or a little lobster at the fishmongers, and bring it here, and make a splendid supper, chatting about what we have seen. now, you know, copperfield, if i was lord chancellor, we couldnt do this

you would do something, whatever you were, my dear traddles, thought i, that would be pleasant and amiable. and by the way,

i said aloud, i suppose you never draw any skeletons now

really, replied traddles, laughing, and reddening, i cant wholly deny that i do, my dear copperfield. for being in one of the back rows of the kings bench the other day, with a pen in my hand, the fancy came into my head to try how i had preserved that accomplishment. and i am afraid theres a skeleton  in a wig  on the ledge of the desk.

after we had both laughed heartily, traddles wound up by looking with a smile at the fire, and saying, in his forgiving way, old creakle

i have a letter from that old  rascal here, said i. for i never was less disposed to forgive him the way he used to batter traddles, than when i saw traddles so ready to forgive him himself.

from creakle the schoolmaster exclaimed traddles. no

among the persons who are attracted to me in my rising fame and fortune, said i, looking over my letters, and who discover that they were always much attached to me, is the selfsame creakle. he is not a schoolmaster now, traddles. he is retired. he is a middlesex magistrate.

i thought traddles might be surprised to hear it, but he was not so at all.

how do you suppose he comes to be a middlesex magistrate said i.

oh dear me replied traddles, it would be very difficult to answer that question. perhaps he voted for somebody, or lent money to somebody, or bought something of somebody, or otherwise obliged somebody, or jobbed for somebody, who knew somebody who got the lieutenant of the county to nominate him for the commission.

on the commission he is, at any rate, said i. and he writes to me here, that he will be glad to show me, in operation, the only true system of prison discipline the only unchallengeable way of making sincere and lasting converts and penitents  which, you know, is by solitary confinement. what do you say

to the system inquired traddles, looking grave.

no. to my accepting the offer, and your going with me

i dont object, said traddles.

then ill write to say so. you remember to say nothing of our treatment this same creakle turning his son out of doors, i suppose, and the life he used to lead his wife and daughter

perfectly, said traddles.

yet, if youll read his letter, youll find he is the tenderest of men to prisoners convicted of the whole calendar of felonies, said i though i cant find that his tenderness extends to any other class of created beings.

traddles shrugged his shoulders, and was not at all surprised. i had not expected him to be, and was not surprised myself or my observation of similar practical satires would have been but scanty. we arranged the time of our visit, and i wrote accordingly to mr. creakle that evening.

on the appointed day  i think it was the next day, but no matter  traddles and i repaired to the prison where mr. creakle was powerful. it was an immense and solid building, erected at a vast expense. i could not help thinking, as we approached the gate, what an uproar would have been made in the country, if any deluded man had proposed to spend one half the money it had cost, on the erection of an industrial school for the young, or a house of refuge for the deserving old.

in an office that might have been on the groundfloor of the tower of babel, it was so massively constructed, we were presented to our old schoolmaster who was one of a group, composed of two or three of the busier sort of magistrates, and some visitors they had brought. he received me, like a man who had formed my mind in bygone years, and had always loved me tenderly. on my introducing traddles, mr. creakle expressed, in like manner, but in an inferior degree, that he had always been traddless guide, philosopher, and friend. our venerable instructor was a great deal older, and not improved in appearance. his face was as fiery as ever his eyes were as small, and rather deeper set. the scanty, wetlooking grey hair, by which i remembered him, was almost gone and the thick veins in his bald head were none the more agreeable to look at.

after some conversation among these gentlemen, from which i might have supposed that there was nothing in the world to be legitimately taken into account but the supreme comfort of prisoners, at any expense, and nothing on the wide earth to be done outside prisondoors, we began our inspection. it being then just dinnertime, we went, first into the great kitchen, where every prisoners dinner was in course of being set out separately to be handed to him in his cell, with the regularity and precision of clockwork. i said aside, to traddles, that i wondered whether it occurred to anybody, that there was a striking contrast between these plentiful repasts of choice quality, and the dinners, not to say of paupers, but of soldiers, sailors, labourers, the great bulk of the honest, working community of whom not one man in five hundred ever dined half so well. but i learned that the system required high living and, in short, to dispose of the system, once for all, i found that on that head and on all others, the system put an end to all doubts, and disposed of all anomalies. nobody appeared to have the least idea that there was any other system, but the system, to be considered.

as we were going through some of the magnificent passages, i inquired of mr. creakle and his friends what were supposed to be the main advantages of this allgoverning and universally overriding system i found them to be the perfect isolation of prisoners  so that no one man in confinement there, knew anything about another and the reduction of prisoners to a wholesome state of mind, leading to sincere contrition and repentance.

now, it struck me, when we began to visit individuals in their cells, and to traverse the passages in which those cells were, and to have the manner of the going to chapel and so forth, explained to us, that there was a strong probability of the prisoners knowing a good deal about each other, and of their carrying on a pretty complete system of intercourse. this, at the time i write, has been proved, i believe, to be the case but, as it would have been flat blasphemy against the system to have hinted such a doubt then, i looked out for the penitence as diligently as i could.

and here again, i had great misgivings. i found as prevalent a fashion in the form of the penitence, as i had left outside in the forms of the coats and waistcoats in the windows of the tailors shops. i found a vast amount of profession, varying very little in character varying very little which i thought exceedingly suspicious, even in words. i found a great many foxes, disparaging whole vineyards of inaccessible grapes but i found very few foxes whom i would have trusted within reach of a bunch.

above all, i found that the most professing men were the greatest objects of interest and that their conceit, their vanity, their want of excitement, and their love of deception which many of them possessed to an almost incredible extent, as their histories showed, all prompted to these professions, and were all gratified by them.

however, i heard so repeatedly, in the course of our goings to and fro, of a certain number twenty seven, who was the favourite, and who really appeared to be a model prisoner, that i resolved to suspend my judgement until i should see twenty seven. twenty eight, i understood, was also a bright particular star but it was his misfortune to have his glory a little dimmed by the extraordinary lustre of twenty seven. i heard so much of twenty seven, of his pious admonitions to everybody around him, and of the beautiful letters he constantly wrote to his mother whom he seemed to consider in a very bad way, that i became quite impatient to see him.

i had to restrain my impatience for some time, on account of twenty seven being reserved for a concluding effect. but, at last, we came to the door of his cell and mr. creakle, looking through a little hole in it, reported to us, in a state of the greatest admiration, that he was reading a hymn book.

there was such a rush of heads immediately, to see number twenty seven reading his hymn book, that the little hole was blocked up, six or seven heads deep. to remedy this inconvenience, and give us an opportunity of conversing with twenty seven in all his purity, mr. creakle directed the door of the cell to be unlocked, and twenty seven to be invited out into the passage. this was done and whom should traddles and i then behold, to our amazement, in this converted number twenty seven, but uriah heep

he knew us directly and said, as he came out  with the old writhe,  how do you do, mr. copperfield how do you do, mr. traddles

this recognition caused a general admiration in the party. i rather thought that everyone was struck by his not being proud, and taking notice of us.

well, twenty seven, said mr. creakle, mournfully admiring him.

how do you find yourself today

i am very umble, sir replied uriah heep.

you are always so, twenty seven, said mr. creakle.

here, another gentleman asked, with extreme anxiety are you quite comfortable

yes, i thank you, sir said uriah heep, looking in that direction. far more comfortable here, than ever i was outside.

i see my follies, now, sir. thats what makes me comfortable.

several gentlemen were much affected and a third questioner, forcing himself to the front, inquired with extreme feeling how do you find the beef

thank you, sir, replied uriah, glancing in the new direction of this voice, it was tougher yesterday than i could wish but its my duty to bear. i have committed follies, gentlemen, said uriah, looking round with a meek smile, and i ought to bear the consequences without repining.

a murmur, partly of gratification at twenty sevens celestial state of mind, and partly of indignation against the contractor who had given him any cause of complaint a note of which was immediately made by mr. creakle, having subsided, twenty seven stood in the midst of us, as if he felt himself the principal object of merit in a highly meritorious museum. that we, the neophytes, might have an excess of light shining upon us all at once, orders were given to let out twenty eight.

i had been so much astonished already, that i only felt a kind of resigned wonder when mr. littimer walked forth, reading a good book twenty eight, said a gentleman in spectacles, who had not yet spoken, you complained last week, my good fellow, of the cocoa.

how has it been since

i thank you, sir, said mr. littimer, it has been better made.

if i might take the liberty of saying so, sir, i dont think the milk which is boiled with it is quite genuine but i am aware, sir, that there is a great adulteration of milk, in london, and that the article in a pure state is difficult to be obtained.

it appeared to me that the gentleman in spectacles backed his twenty eight against mr. creakles twenty seven, for each of them took his own man in hand.

what is your state of mind, twenty eight said the questioner in spectacles.

i thank you, sir, returned mr. littimer i see my follies now, sir. i am a good deal troubled when i think of the sins of my former companions, sir but i trust they may find forgiveness.

you are quite happy yourself said the questioner, nodding encouragement.

i am much obliged to you, sir, returned mr. littimer. perfectly so.

is there anything at all on your mind now said the questioner.

if so, mention it, twenty eight.

sir, said mr. littimer, without looking up, if my eyes have not deceived me, there is a gentleman present who was acquainted with me in my former life. it may be profitable to that gentleman to know, sir, that i attribute my past follies, entirely to having lived a thoughtless life in the service of young men and to having allowed myself to be led by them into weaknesses, which i had not the strength to resist. i hope that gentleman will take warning, sir, and will not be offended at my freedom. it is for his good.

i am conscious of my own past follies. i hope he may repent of all the wickedness and sin to which he has been a party.

i observed that several gentlemen were shading their eyes, each with one hand, as if they had just come into church.

this does you credit, twenty eight, returned the questioner. i should have expected it of you. is there anything else

sir, returned mr. littimer, slightly lifting up his eyebrows, but not his eyes, there was a young woman who fell into dissolute courses, that i endeavoured to save, sir, but could not rescue. i beg that gentleman, if he has it in his power, to inform that young woman from me that i forgive her her bad conduct towards myself, and that i call her to repentance  if he will be so good.

i have no doubt, twenty eight, returned the questioner, that the gentleman you refer to feels very strongly  as we all must  what you have so properly said. we will not detain you.

i thank you, sir, said mr. littimer. gentlemen, i wish you a good day, and hoping you and your families will also see your wickedness, and amend

with this, number twenty eight retired, after a glance between him and uriah as if they were not altogether unknown to each other, through some medium of communication and a murmur went round the group, as his door shut upon him, that he was a most respectable man, and a beautiful case.

now, twenty seven, said mr. creakle, entering on a clear stage with his man, is there anything that anyone can do for you if so, mention it.

i would umbly ask, sir, returned uriah, with a jerk of his malevolent head, for leave to write again to mother.

it shall certainly be granted, said mr. creakle.

thank you, sir i am anxious about mother. i am afraid she aint safe.

somebody incautiously asked, what from but there was a scandalized whisper of hush

immortally safe, sir, returned uriah, writhing in the direction of the voice. i should wish mother to be got into my state. i never should have been got into my present state if i hadnt come here. i wish mother had come here. it would be better for everybody, if they got took up, and was brought here.

this sentiment gave unbounded satisfaction  greater satisfaction, i think, than anything that had passed yet.

before i come here, said uriah, stealing a look at us, as if he would have blighted the outer world to which we belonged, if he could, i was given to follies but now i am sensible of my follies. theres a deal of sin outside. theres a deal of sin in mother. theres nothing but sin everywhere  except here.

you are quite changed said mr. creakle.

oh dear, yes, sir cried this hopeful penitent.

you wouldnt relapse, if you were going out asked somebody else.

oh dear no, sir

well said mr. creakle, this is very gratifying. you have addressed mr. copperfield, twenty seven. do you wish to say anything further to him

you knew me, a long time before i came here and was changed, mr.

copperfield, said uriah, looking at me and a more villainous look i never saw, even on his visage. you knew me when, in spite of my follies, i was umble among them that was proud, and meek among them that was violent  you was violent to me yourself, mr. copperfield.

once, you struck me a blow in the face, you know.

general commiseration. several indignant glances directed at me.

but i forgive you, mr. copperfield, said uriah, making his forgiving nature the subject of a most impious and awful parallel, which i shall not record. i forgive everybody. it would ill become me to bear malice. i freely forgive you, and i hope youll curb your passions in future. i hope mr. w. will repent, and miss w., and all of that sinful lot. youve been visited with affliction, and i hope it may do you good but youd better have come here. mr. w. had better have come here, and miss w. too. the best wish i could give you, mr. copperfield, and give all of you gentlemen, is, that you could be took up and brought here. when i think of my past follies, and my present state, i am sure it would be best for you. i pity all who aint brought here

he sneaked back into his cell, amidst a little chorus of approbation and both traddles and i experienced a great relief when he was locked in.

it was a characteristic feature in this repentance, that i was fain to ask what these two men had done, to be there at all. that appeared to be the last thing about which they had anything to say.

i addressed myself to one of the two warders, who, i suspected from certain latent indications in their faces, knew pretty well what all this stir was worth.

do you know, said i, as we walked along the passage, what felony was number twenty sevens last folly

the answer was that it was a bank case.

a fraud on the bank of england i asked.

yes, sir. fraud, forgery, and conspiracy. he and some others.

he set the others on. it was a deep plot for a large sum.

sentence, transportation for life. twenty seven was the knowingest bird of the lot, and had very nearly kept himself safe but not quite. the bank was just able to put salt upon his tail  and only just.

do you know twenty eights offence

twenty eight, returned my informant, speaking throughout in a low tone, and looking over his shoulder as we walked along the passage, to guard himself from being overheard, in such an unlawful reference to these immaculates, by creakle and the rest twenty eight also transportation got a place, and robbed a young master of a matter of two hundred and fifty pounds in money and valuables, the night before they were going abroad. i particularly recollect his case, from his being took by a dwarf.

a what

a little woman. i have forgot her name

not mowcher

thats it he had eluded pursuit, and was going to america in a flaxen wig, and whiskers, and such a complete disguise as never you see in all your born days when the little woman, being in southampton, met him walking along the street  picked him out with her sharp eye in a moment  ran betwixt his legs to upset him  and held on to him like grim death.

excellent miss mowcher cried i.

youd have said so, if you had seen her, standing on a chair in the witnessbox at the trial, as i did, said my friend. he cut her face right open, and pounded her in the most brutal manner, when she took him but she never loosed her hold till he was locked up. she held so tight to him, in fact, that the officers were obliged to take em both together. she gave her evidence in the gamest way, and was highly complimented by the bench, and cheered right home to her lodgings. she said in court that shed have took him singlehanded on account of what she knew concerning him, if he had been samson. and its my belief she would

it was mine too, and i highly respected miss mowcher for it.

we had now seen all there was to see. it would have been in vain to represent to such a man as the worshipful mr. creakle, that twenty seven and twenty eight were perfectly consistent and unchanged that exactly what they were then, they had always been that the hypocritical knaves were just the subjects to make that sort of profession in such a place that they knew its marketvalue at least as well as we did, in the immediate service it would do them when they were expatriated in a word, that it was a rotten, hollow, painfully suggestive piece of business altogether. we left them to their system and themselves, and went home wondering.

perhaps its a good thing, traddles, said i, to have an unsound hobby ridden hard for its the sooner ridden to death.

i hope so, replied traddles.



chapter 

a light shines on my way

the year came round to christmastime, and i had been at home above two months. i had seen agnes frequently. however loud the general voice might be in giving me encouragement, and however fervent the emotions and endeavours to which it roused me, i heard her lightest word of praise as i heard nothing else.

at least once a week, and sometimes oftener, i rode over there, and passed the evening. i usually rode back at night for the old unhappy sense was always hovering about me now  most sorrowfully when i left her  and i was glad to be up and out, rather than wandering over the past in weary wakefulness or miserable dreams.

i wore away the longest part of many wild sad nights, in those rides reviving, as i went, the thoughts that had occupied me in my long absence.

or, if i were to say rather that i listened to the echoes of those thoughts, i should better express the truth. they spoke to me from afar off. i had put them at a distance, and accepted my inevitable place. when i read to agnes what i wrote when i saw her listening face moved her to smiles or tears and heard her cordial voice so earnest on the shadowy events of that imaginative world in which i lived i thought what a fate mine might have been  but only thought so, as i had thought after i was married to dora, what i could have wished my wife to be.

my duty to agnes, who loved me with a love, which, if i disquieted, i wronged most selfishly and poorly, and could never restore my matured assurance that i, who had worked out my own destiny, and won what i had impetuously set my heart on, had no right to murmur, and must bear comprised what i felt and what i had learned. but i loved her and now it even became some consolation to me, vaguely to conceive a distant day when i might blamelessly avow it when all this should be over when i could say agnes, so it was when i came home and now i am old, and i never have loved since

she did not once show me any change in herself. what she always had been to me, she still was wholly unaltered.

between my aunt and me there had been something, in this connexion, since the night of my return, which i cannot call a restraint, or an avoidance of the subject, so much as an implied understanding that we thought of it together, but did not shape our thoughts into words. when, according to our old custom, we sat before the fire at night, we often fell into this train as naturally, and as consciously to each other, as if we had unreservedly said so. but we preserved an unbroken silence. i believed that she had read, or partly read, my thoughts that night and that she fully comprehended why i gave mine no more distinct expression.

this christmastime being come, and agnes having reposed no new confidence in me, a doubt that had several times arisen in my mind  whether she could have that perception of the true state of my breast, which restrained her with the apprehension of giving me pain  began to oppress me heavily. if that were so, my sacrifice was nothing my plainest obligation to her unfulfilled and every poor action i had shrunk from, i was hourly doing. i resolved to set this right beyond all doubt  if such a barrier were between us, to break it down at once with a determined hand.

it was  what lasting reason have i to remember it  a cold, harsh, winter day. there had been snow, some hours before and it lay, not deep, but hardfrozen on the ground. out at sea, beyond my window, the wind blew ruggedly from the north. i had been thinking of it, sweeping over those mountain wastes of snow in switzerland, then inaccessible to any human foot and had been speculating which was the lonelier, those solitary regions, or a deserted ocean.

riding today, trot said my aunt, putting her head in at the door.

yes, said i, i am going over to canterbury. its a good day for a ride.

i hope your horse may think so too, said my aunt but at present he is holding down his head and his ears, standing before the door there, as if he thought his stable preferable.

my aunt, i may observe, allowed my horse on the forbidden ground, but had not at all relented towards the donkeys.

he will be fresh enough, presently said i.

the ride will do his master good, at all events, observed my aunt, glancing at the papers on my table. ah, child, you pass a good many hours here i never thought, when i used to read books, what work it was to write them.

its work enough to read them, sometimes, i returned. as to the writing, it has its own charms, aunt.

ah i see said my aunt. ambition, love of approbation, sympathy, and much more, i suppose well go along with you

do you know anything more, said i, standing composedly before her  she had patted me on the shoulder, and sat down in my chair  of that attachment of agnes

she looked up in my face a little while, before replying i think i do, trot.

are you confirmed in your impression i inquired.

i think i am, trot.

she looked so steadfastly at me with a kind of doubt, or pity, or suspense in her affection that i summoned the stronger determination to show her a perfectly cheerful face.

and what is more, trot  said my aunt.

yes

i think agnes is going to be married.

god bless her said i, cheerfully.

god bless her said my aunt, and her husband too

i echoed it, parted from my aunt, and went lightly downstairs, mounted, and rode away. there was greater reason than before to do what i had resolved to do.

how well i recollect the wintry ride the frozen particles of ice, brushed from the blades of grass by the wind, and borne across my face the hard clatter of the horses hoofs, beating a tune upon the ground the stifftilled soil the snowdrift, lightly eddying in the chalkpit as the breeze ruffled it the smoking team with the waggon of old hay, stopping to breathe on the hilltop, and shaking their bells musically the whitened slopes and sweeps of downland lying against the dark sky, as if they were drawn on a huge slate

i found agnes alone. the little girls had gone to their own homes now, and she was alone by the fire, reading. she put down her book on seeing me come in and having welcomed me as usual, took her workbasket and sat in one of the oldfashioned windows.

i sat beside her on the windowseat, and we talked of what i was doing, and when it would be done, and of the progress i had made since my last visit. agnes was very cheerful and laughingly predicted that i should soon become too famous to be talked to, on such subjects.

so i make the most of the present time, you see, said agnes, and talk to you while i may.

as i looked at her beautiful face, observant of her work, she raised her mild clear eyes, and saw that i was looking at her.

you are thoughtful today, trotwood

agnes, shall i tell you what about i came to tell you.

she put aside her work, as she was used to do when we were seriously discussing anything and gave me her whole attention.

my dear agnes, do you doubt my being true to you

no she answered, with a look of astonishment.

do you doubt my being what i always have been to you

no she answered, as before.

do you remember that i tried to tell you, when i came home, what a debt of gratitude i owed you, dearest agnes, and how fervently i felt towards you

i remember it, she said, gently, very well.

you have a secret, said i. let me share it, agnes.

she cast down her eyes, and trembled.

i could hardly fail to know, even if i had not heard  but from other lips than yours, agnes, which seems strange  that there is someone upon whom you have bestowed the treasure of your love. do not shut me out of what concerns your happiness so nearly if you can trust me, as you say you can, and as i know you may, let me be your friend, your brother, in this matter, of all others

with an appealing, almost a reproachful, glance, she rose from the window and hurrying across the room as if without knowing where, put her hands before her face, and burst into such tears as smote me to the heart.

and yet they awakened something in me, bringing promise to my heart. without my knowing why, these tears allied themselves with the quietly sad smile which was so fixed in my remembrance, and shook me more with hope than fear or sorrow.

agnes sister dearest what have i done

let me go away, trotwood. i am not well. i am not myself. i will speak to you by and by  another time. i will write to you.

dont speak to me now. dont dont

i sought to recollect what she had said, when i had spoken to her on that former night, of her affection needing no return. it seemed a very world that i must search through in a moment.

agnes, i cannot bear to see you so, and think that i have been the cause. my dearest girl, dearer to me than anything in life, if you are unhappy, let me share your unhappiness. if you are in need of help or counsel, let me try to give it to you. if you have indeed a burden on your heart, let me try to lighten it. for whom do i live now, agnes, if it is not for you

oh, spare me i am not myself another time was all i could distinguish.

was it a selfish error that was leading me away or, having once a clue to hope, was there something opening to me that i had not dared to think of i must say more. i cannot let you leave me so for heavens sake, agnes, let us not mistake each other after all these years, and all that has come and gone with them i must speak plainly. if you have any lingering thought that i could envy the happiness you will confer that i could not resign you to a dearer protector, of your own choosing that i could not, from my removed place, be a contented witness of your joy dismiss it, for i dont deserve it

i have not suffered quite in vain. you have not taught me quite in vain. there is no alloy of self in what i feel for you.

she was quiet now. in a little time, she turned her pale face towards me, and said in a low voice, broken here and there, but very clear i owe it to your pure friendship for me, trotwood  which, indeed, i do not doubt  to tell you, you are mistaken. i can do no more.

if i have sometimes, in the course of years, wanted help and counsel, they have come to me. if i have sometimes been unhappy, the feeling has passed away. if i have ever had a burden on my heart, it has been lightened for me. if i have any secret, it is  no new one and is  not what you suppose. i cannot reveal it, or divide it. it has long been mine, and must remain mine.

agnes stay a moment

she was going away, but i detained her. i clasped my arm about her waist. in the course of years it is not a new one new thoughts and hopes were whirling through my mind, and all the colours of my life were changing.

dearest agnes whom i so respect and honour  whom i so devotedly love when i came here today, i thought that nothing could have wrested this confession from me. i thought i could have kept it in my bosom all our lives, till we were old. but, agnes, if i have indeed any newborn hope that i may ever call you something more than sister, widely different from sister 

her tears fell fast but they were not like those she had lately shed, and i saw my hope brighten in them.

agnes ever my guide, and best support if you had been more mindful of yourself, and less of me, when we grew up here together, i think my heedless fancy never would have wandered from you. but you were so much better than i, so necessary to me in every boyish hope and disappointment, that to have you to confide in, and rely upon in everything, became a second nature, supplanting for the time the first and greater one of loving you as i do

still weeping, but not sadly  joyfully and clasped in my arms as she had never been, as i had thought she never was to be when i loved dora  fondly, agnes, as you know 

yes she cried, earnestly. i am glad to know it

when i loved her  even then, my love would have been incomplete, without your sympathy. i had it, and it was perfected. and when i lost her, agnes, what should i have been without you, still

closer in my arms, nearer to my heart, her trembling hand upon my shoulder, her sweet eyes shining through her tears, on mine i went away, dear agnes, loving you. i stayed away, loving you.

i returned home, loving you

and now, i tried to tell her of the struggle i had had, and the conclusion i had come to. i tried to lay my mind before her, truly, and entirely. i tried to show her how i had hoped i had come into the better knowledge of myself and of her how i had resigned myself to what that better knowledge brought and how i had come there, even that day, in my fidelity to this. if she did so love me i said that she could take me for her husband, she could do so, on no deserving of mine, except upon the truth of my love for her, and the trouble in which it had ripened to be what it was and hence it was that i revealed it. and o, agnes, even out of thy true eyes, in that same time, the spirit of my childwife looked upon me, saying it was well and winning me, through thee, to tenderest recollections of the blossom that had withered in its bloom i am so blest, trotwood  my heart is so overcharged  but there is one thing i must say.

dearest, what

she laid her gentle hands upon my shoulders, and looked calmly in my face.

do you know, yet, what it is

i am afraid to speculate on what it is. tell me, my dear.

i have loved you all my life

o, we were happy, we were happy our tears were not for the trials hers so much the greater through which we had come to be thus, but for the rapture of being thus, never to be divided more

we walked, that winter evening, in the fields together and the blessed calm within us seemed to be partaken by the frosty air.

the early stars began to shine while we were lingering on, and looking up to them, we thanked our god for having guided us to this tranquillity.

we stood together in the same oldfashioned window at night, when the moon was shining agnes with her quiet eyes raised up to it i following her glance. long miles of road then opened out before my mind and, toiling on, i saw a ragged wayworn boy, forsaken and neglected, who should come to call even the heart now beating against mine, his own.


it was nearly dinnertime next day when we appeared before my aunt.

she was up in my study, peggotty said which it was her pride to keep in readiness and order for me. we found her, in her spectacles, sitting by the fire.

goodness me said my aunt, peering through the dusk, whos this youre bringing home

agnes, said i.

as we had arranged to say nothing at first, my aunt was not a little discomfited. she darted a hopeful glance at me, when i said agnes but seeing that i looked as usual, she took off her spectacles in despair, and rubbed her nose with them.

she greeted agnes heartily, nevertheless and we were soon in the lighted parlour downstairs, at dinner. my aunt put on her spectacles twice or thrice, to take another look at me, but as often took them off again, disappointed, and rubbed her nose with them. much to the discomfiture of mr. dick, who knew this to be a bad symptom.

by the by, aunt, said i, after dinner i have been speaking to agnes about what you told me.

then, trot, said my aunt, turning scarlet, you did wrong, and broke your promise.

you are not angry, aunt, i trust i am sure you wont be, when you learn that agnes is not unhappy in any attachment.

stuff and nonsense said my aunt.

as my aunt appeared to be annoyed, i thought the best way was to cut her annoyance short. i took agnes in my arm to the back of her chair, and we both leaned over her. my aunt, with one clap of her hands, and one look through her spectacles, immediately went into hysterics, for the first and only time in all my knowledge of her.

the hysterics called up peggotty. the moment my aunt was restored, she flew at peggotty, and calling her a silly old creature, hugged her with all her might. after that, she hugged mr. dick who was highly honoured, but a good deal surprised and after that, told them why. then, we were all happy together.

i could not discover whether my aunt, in her last short conversation with me, had fallen on a pious fraud, or had really mistaken the state of my mind. it was quite enough, she said, that she had told me agnes was going to be married and that i now knew better than anyone how true it was.


we were married within a fortnight. traddles and sophy, and doctor and mrs. strong, were the only guests at our quiet wedding. we left them full of joy and drove away together. clasped in my embrace, i held the source of every worthy aspiration i had ever had the centre of myself, the circle of my life, my own, my wife my love of whom was founded on a rock dearest husband said agnes. now that i may call you by that name, i have one thing more to tell you.

let me hear it, love.

it grows out of the night when dora died. she sent you for me.

she did.

she told me that she left me something. can you think what it was

i believed i could. i drew the wife who had so long loved me, closer to my side.

she told me that she made a last request to me, and left me a last charge.

and it was 

that only i would occupy this vacant place.

and agnes laid her head upon my breast, and wept and i wept with her, though we were so happy.



chapter 

a visitor

what i have purposed to record is nearly finished but there is yet an incident conspicuous in my memory, on which it often rests with delight, and without which one thread in the web i have spun would have a ravelled end.

i had advanced in fame and fortune, my domestic joy was perfect, i had been married ten happy years. agnes and i were sitting by the fire, in our house in london, one night in spring, and three of our children were playing in the room, when i was told that a stranger wished to see me.

he had been asked if he came on business, and had answered no he had come for the pleasure of seeing me, and had come a long way.

he was an old man, my servant said, and looked like a farmer.

as this sounded mysterious to the children, and moreover was like the beginning of a favourite story agnes used to tell them, introductory to the arrival of a wicked old fairy in a cloak who hated everybody, it produced some commotion. one of our boys laid his head in his mothers lap to be out of harms way, and little agnes our eldest child left her doll in a chair to represent her, and thrust out her little heap of golden curls from between the windowcurtains, to see what happened next.

let him come in here said i.

there soon appeared, pausing in the dark doorway as he entered, a hale, greyhaired old man. little agnes, attracted by his looks, had run to bring him in, and i had not yet clearly seen his face, when my wife, starting up, cried out to me, in a pleased and agitated voice, that it was mr. peggotty

it was mr. peggotty. an old man now, but in a ruddy, hearty, strong old age. when our first emotion was over, and he sat before the fire with the children on his knees, and the blaze shining on his face, he looked, to me, as vigorous and robust, withal as handsome, an old man, as ever i had seen.

masr davy, said he. and the old name in the old tone fell so naturally on my ear masr davy, tis a joyful hour as i see you, once more, long with your own trew wife

a joyful hour indeed, old friend cried i.

and these heer pretty ones, said mr. peggotty. to look at these heer flowers why, masr davy, you was but the heighth of the littlest of these, when i first see you when emly warnt no bigger, and our poor lad were but a lad

time has changed me more than it has changed you since then, said i. but let these dear rogues go to bed and as no house in england but this must hold you, tell me where to send for your luggage is the old black bag among it, that went so far, i wonder, and then, over a glass of yarmouth grog, we will have the tidings of ten years

are you alone asked agnes.

yes, maam, he said, kissing her hand, quite alone.

we sat him between us, not knowing how to give him welcome enough and as i began to listen to his old familiar voice, i could have fancied he was still pursuing his long journey in search of his darling niece.

its a mort of water, said mr. peggotty, fur to come across, and ony stay a matter of fower weeks. but water specially when tis salt comes natral to me and friends is dear, and i am heer.  which is verse, said mr. peggotty, surprised to find it out, though i hadnt such intentions.

are you going back those many thousand miles, so soon asked agnes.

yes, maam, he returned. i giv the promise to emly, afore i come away. you see, i doent grow younger as the years comes round, and if i hadnt sailed as twas, most like i shouldnt never have done t. and its allus been on my mind, as i must come and see masr davy and your own sweet blooming self, in your wedded happiness, afore i got to be too old.

he looked at us, as if he could never feast his eyes on us sufficiently. agnes laughingly put back some scattered locks of his grey hair, that he might see us better.

and now tell us, said i, everything relating to your fortunes.

our fortuns, masr davy, he rejoined, is soon told. we havent fared nohows, but fared to thrive. weve allus thrived. weve worked as we ought to t, and maybe we lived a leetle hard at first or so, but we have allus thrived. what with sheepfarming, and what with stockfarming, and what with one thing and what with tother, we are as well to do, as well could be. theers been kiender a blessing fell upon us, said mr. peggotty, reverentially inclining his head, and weve done nowt but prosper. that is, in the long run. if not yesterday, why then today. if not today, why then tomorrow.

and emily said agnes and i, both together.

emly, said he, arter you left her, maam  and i never heerd her saying of her prayers at night, tother side the canvas screen, when we was settled in the bush, but what i heerd your name  and arter she and me lost sight of masr davy, that theer shining sundown  was that low, at first, that, if she had knowd then what masr davy kep from us so kind and thowtful, tis my opinion shed have drooped away. but theer was some poor folks aboard as had illness among em, and she took care of them and theer was the children in our company, and she took care of them and so she got to be busy, and to be doing good, and that helped her.

when did she first hear of it i asked.

i kep it from her arter i heerd on t, said mr. peggotty, going on nigh a year. we was living then in a solitary place, but among the beautifullest trees, and with the roses acovering our beein to the roof. theer come along one day, when i was out aworking on the land, a traveller from our own norfolk or suffolk in england i doent rightly mind which, and of course we took him in, and giv him to eat and drink, and made him welcome. we all do that, all the colony over. hed got an old newspaper with him, and some other account in print of the storm. thats how she knowd it.

when i came home at night, i found she knowd it.

he dropped his voice as he said these words, and the gravity i so well remembered overspread his face.

did it change her much we asked.

aye, for a good long time, he said, shaking his head if not to this present hour. but i think the solitoode done her good. and she had a deal to mind in the way of poultry and the like, and minded of it, and come through. i wonder, he said thoughtfully, if you could see my emly now, masr davy, whether youd know her

is she so altered i inquired.

i doent know. i see her evry day, and doent know but, oddtimes, i have thowt so. a slight figure, said mr. peggotty, looking at the fire, kiender worn soft, sorrowful, blue eyes a delicate face a pritty head, leaning a little down a quiet voice and way  timid amost. thats emly

we silently observed him as he sat, still looking at the fire.

some thinks, he said, as her affection was illbestowed some, as her marriage was broken off by death. no one knows how tis.

she might have married well, a mort of times, but, uncle, she says to me, thats gone for ever. cheerful along with me retired when others is by fond of going any distance fur to teach a child, or fur to tend a sick person, or fur to do some kindness towrds a young girls wedding and shes done a many, but has never seen one fondly loving of her uncle patient liked by young and old sowt out by all that has any trouble. thats emly

he drew his hand across his face, and with a halfsuppressed sigh looked up from the fire.

is martha with you yet i asked.

martha, he replied, got married, masr davy, in the second year.

a young man, a farmlabourer, as come by us on his way to market with his masrs drays  a journey of over five hundred mile, theer and back  made offers fur to take her fur his wife wives is very scarce theer, and then to set up fur their two selves in the bush.

she spoke to me fur to tell him her trew story. i did. they was married, and they live fower hundred mile away from any voices but their own and the singing birds.

mrs. gummidge i suggested.

it was a pleasant key to touch, for mr. peggotty suddenly burst into a roar of laughter, and rubbed his hands up and down his legs, as he had been accustomed to do when he enjoyed himself in the longshipwrecked boat.

would you believe it he said. why, someun even made offer fur to marry her if a ships cook that was turning settler, masr davy, didnt make offers fur to marry missis gummidge, im gormed  and i cant say no fairer than that

i never saw agnes laugh so. this sudden ecstasy on the part of mr.

peggotty was so delightful to her, that she could not leave off laughing and the more she laughed the more she made me laugh, and the greater mr. peggottys ecstasy became, and the more he rubbed his legs.

and what did mrs. gummidge say i asked, when i was grave enough.

if youll believe me, returned mr. peggotty, missis gummidge, stead of saying thank you, im much obleeged to you, i aint agoing fur to change my condition at my time of life, upd with a bucket as was standing by, and laid it over that theer ships cooks head till he sung out fur help, and i went in and reskied of him.

mr. peggotty burst into a great roar of laughter, and agnes and i both kept him company.

but i must say this, for the good creetur, he resumed, wiping his face, when we were quite exhausted she has been all she said shed be to us, and more. shes the willingest, the trewest, the honestesthelping woman, masr davy, as ever drawd the breath of life. i have never knowd her to be lone and lorn, for a single minute, not even when the colony was all afore us, and we was new to it. and thinking of the old un is a thing she never done, i do assure you, since she left england

now, last, not least, mr. micawber, said i. he has paid off every obligation he incurred here  even to traddless bill, you remember my dear agnes  and therefore we may take it for granted that he is doing well. but what is the latest news of him

mr. peggotty, with a smile, put his hand in his breastpocket, and produced a flatfolded, paper parcel, from which he took out, with much care, a little oddlooking newspaper.

you are to understan, masr davy, said he, as we have left the bush now, being so well to do and have gone right away round to port middlebay harbour, wheer theers what we call a town.

mr. micawber was in the bush near you said i.

bless you, yes, said mr. peggotty, and turned to with a will.

i never wish to meet a better genlman for turning to with a will.

ive seen that theer bald head of his a perspiring in the sun, masr davy, till i amost thowt it would have melted away. and now hes a magistrate.

a magistrate, eh said i.

mr. peggotty pointed to a certain paragraph in the newspaper, where i read aloud as follows, from the port middlebay times


the public dinner to our distinguished fellowcolonist and townsman, wilkins micawber, esquire, port middlebay district magistrate, came off yesterday in the large room of the hotel, which was crowded to suffocation. it is estimated that not fewer than fortyseven persons must have been accommodated with dinner at one time, exclusive of the company in the passage and on the stairs. the beauty, fashion, and exclusiveness of port middlebay, flocked to do honour to one so deservedly esteemed, so highly talented, and so widely popular. doctor mell of colonial salemhouse grammar school, port middlebay presided, and on his right sat the distinguished guest. after the removal of the cloth, and the singing of non nobis beautifully executed, and in which we were at no loss to distinguish the belllike notes of that gifted amateur, wilkins micawber, esquire, junior, the usual loyal and patriotic toasts were severally given and rapturously received.

doctor mell, in a speech replete with feeling, then proposed our distinguished guest, the ornament of our town. may he never leave us but to better himself, and may his success among us be such as to render his bettering himself impossible the cheering with which the toast was received defies description. again and again it rose and fell, like the waves of ocean. at length all was hushed, and wilkins micawber, esquire, presented himself to return thanks. far be it from us, in the present comparatively imperfect state of the resources of our establishment, to endeavour to follow our distinguished townsman through the smoothlyflowing periods of his polished and highlyornate address suffice it to observe, that it was a masterpiece of eloquence and that those passages in which he more particularly traced his own successful career to its source, and warned the younger portion of his auditory from the shoals of ever incurring pecuniary liabilities which they were unable to liquidate, brought a tear into the manliest eye present.

the remaining toasts were doctor mell mrs. micawber who gracefully bowed her acknowledgements from the sidedoor, where a galaxy of beauty was elevated on chairs, at once to witness and adorn the gratifying scene, mrs. ridger begs late miss micawber

mrs. mell wilkins micawber, esquire, junior who convulsed the assembly by humorously remarking that he found himself unable to return thanks in a speech, but would do so, with their permission, in a song mrs. micawbers family well known, it is needless to remark, in the mothercountry, ampc. ampc. ampc. at the conclusion of the proceedings the tables were cleared as if by artmagic for dancing. among the votaries of terpsichore, who disported themselves until sol gave warning for departure, wilkins micawber, esquire, junior, and the lovely and accomplished miss helena, fourth daughter of doctor mell, were particularly remarkable.


i was looking back to the name of doctor mell, pleased to have discovered, in these happier circumstances, mr. mell, formerly poor pinched usher to my middlesex magistrate, when mr. peggotty pointing to another part of the paper, my eyes rested on my own name, and i read thus


 to david copperfield, esquire, the eminent author.

my dear sir, years have elapsed, since i had an opportunity of ocularly perusing the lineaments, now familiar to the imaginations of a considerable portion of the civilized world.

but, my dear sir, though estranged by the force of circumstances over which i have had no control from the personal society of the friend and companion of my youth, i have not been unmindful of his soaring flight. nor have i been debarred, though seas between us braid ha roared, burns from participating in the intellectual feasts he has spread before us.

i cannot, therefore, allow of the departure from this place of an individual whom we mutually respect and esteem, without, my dear sir, taking this public opportunity of thanking you, on my own behalf, and, i may undertake to add, on that of the whole of the inhabitants of port middlebay, for the gratification of which you are the ministering agent.

go on, my dear sir you are not unknown here, you are not unappreciated. though remote, we are neither unfriended,

melancholy, nor i may add slow. go on, my dear sir, in your eagle course the inhabitants of port middlebay may at least aspire to watch it, with delight, with entertainment, with instruction among the eyes elevated towards you from this portion of the globe, will ever be found, while it has light and life, the eye appertaining to wilkins micawber, magistrate.


i found, on glancing at the remaining contents of the newspaper, that mr. micawber was a diligent and esteemed correspondent of that journal. there was another letter from him in the same paper, touching a bridge there was an advertisement of a collection of similar letters by him, to be shortly republished, in a neat volume, with considerable additions and, unless i am very much mistaken, the leading article was his also.

we talked much of mr. micawber, on many other evenings while mr.

peggotty remained with us. he lived with us during the whole term of his stay,  which, i think, was something less than a month,  and his sister and my aunt came to london to see him. agnes and i parted from him aboardship, when he sailed and we shall never part from him more, on earth.

but before he left, he went with me to yarmouth, to see a little tablet i had put up in the churchyard to the memory of ham. while i was copying the plain inscription for him at his request, i saw him stoop, and gather a tuft of grass from the grave and a little earth.

for emly, he said, as he put it in his breast. i promised, masr davy.



chapter 

a last retrospect

and now my written story ends. i look back, once more  for the last time  before i close these leaves.

i see myself, with agnes at my side, journeying along the road of life. i see our children and our friends around us and i hear the roar of many voices, not indifferent to me as i travel on.

what faces are the most distinct to me in the fleeting crowd lo, these all turning to me as i ask my thoughts the question

here is my aunt, in stronger spectacles, an old woman of fourscore years and more, but upright yet, and a steady walker of six miles at a stretch in winter weather.

always with her, here comes peggotty, my good old nurse, likewise in spectacles, accustomed to do needlework at night very close to the lamp, but never sitting down to it without a bit of wax candle, a yardmeasure in a little house, and a workbox with a picture of st. pauls upon the lid.

the cheeks and arms of peggotty, so hard and red in my childish days, when i wondered why the birds didnt peck her in preference to apples, are shrivelled now and her eyes, that used to darken their whole neighbourhood in her face, are fainter though they glitter still but her rough forefinger, which i once associated with a pocket nutmeggrater, is just the same, and when i see my least child catching at it as it totters from my aunt to her, i think of our little parlour at home, when i could scarcely walk.

my aunts old disappointment is set right, now. she is godmother to a real living betsey trotwood and dora the next in order says she spoils her.

there is something bulky in peggottys pocket. it is nothing smaller than the crocodile book, which is in rather a dilapidated condition by this time, with divers of the leaves torn and stitched across, but which peggotty exhibits to the children as a precious relic. i find it very curious to see my own infant face, looking up at me from the crocodile stories and to be reminded by it of my old acquaintance brooks of sheffield.

among my boys, this summer holiday time, i see an old man making giant kites, and gazing at them in the air, with a delight for which there are no words. he greets me rapturously, and whispers, with many nods and winks, trotwood, you will be glad to hear that i shall finish the memorial when i have nothing else to do, and that your aunts the most extraordinary woman in the world, sir

who is this bent lady, supporting herself by a stick, and showing me a countenance in which there are some traces of old pride and beauty, feebly contending with a querulous, imbecile, fretful wandering of the mind she is in a garden and near her stands a sharp, dark, withered woman, with a white scar on her lip. let me hear what they say.

rosa, i have forgotten this gentlemans name.

rosa bends over her, and calls to her, mr. copperfield.

i am glad to see you, sir. i am sorry to observe you are in mourning. i hope time will be good to you.

her impatient attendant scolds her, tells her i am not in mourning, bids her look again, tries to rouse her.

you have seen my son, sir, says the elder lady. are you reconciled

looking fixedly at me, she puts her hand to her forehead, and moans. suddenly, she cries, in a terrible voice, rosa, come to me. he is dead rosa kneeling at her feet, by turns caresses her, and quarrels with her now fiercely telling her, i loved him better than you ever did now soothing her to sleep on her breast, like a sick child. thus i leave them thus i always find them thus they wear their time away, from year to year.

what ship comes sailing home from india, and what english lady is this, married to a growling old scotch croesus with great flaps of ears can this be julia mills

indeed it is julia mills, peevish and fine, with a black man to carry cards and letters to her on a golden salver, and a coppercoloured woman in linen, with a bright handkerchief round her head, to serve her tiffin in her dressingroom. but julia keeps no diary in these days never sings affections dirge eternally quarrels with the old scotch croesus, who is a sort of yellow bear with a tanned hide. julia is steeped in money to the throat, and talks and thinks of nothing else. i liked her better in the desert of sahara.

or perhaps this is the desert of sahara for, though julia has a stately house, and mighty company, and sumptuous dinners every day, i see no green growth near her nothing that can ever come to fruit or flower. what julia calls society, i see among it mr. jack maldon, from his patent place, sneering at the hand that gave it him, and speaking to me of the doctor as so charmingly antique.

but when society is the name for such hollow gentlemen and ladies, julia, and when its breeding is professed indifference to everything that can advance or can retard mankind, i think we must have lost ourselves in that same desert of sahara, and had better find the way out.

and lo, the doctor, always our good friend, labouring at his dictionary somewhere about the letter d, and happy in his home and wife. also the old soldier, on a considerably reduced footing, and by no means so influential as in days of yore

working at his chambers in the temple, with a busy aspect, and his hair where he is not bald made more rebellious than ever by the constant friction of his lawyerswig, i come, in a later time, upon my dear old traddles. his table is covered with thick piles of papers and i say, as i look around me if sophy were your clerk, now, traddles, she would have enough to do

you may say that, my dear copperfield but those were capital days, too, in holborn court were they not

when she told you you would be a judge but it was not the town talk then

at all events, says traddles, if i ever am one 

why, you know you will be.

well, my dear copperfield, when i am one, i shall tell the story, as i said i would.

we walk away, arm in arm. i am going to have a family dinner with traddles. it is sophys birthday and, on our road, traddles discourses to me of the good fortune he has enjoyed.

i really have been able, my dear copperfield, to do all that i had most at heart. theres the reverend horace promoted to that living at four hundred and fifty pounds a year there are our two boys receiving the very best education, and distinguishing themselves as steady scholars and good fellows there are three of the girls married very comfortably there are three more living with us there are three more keeping house for the reverend horace since mrs. crewlers decease and all of them happy.

except  i suggest.

except the beauty, says traddles. yes. it was very unfortunate that she should marry such a vagabond. but there was a certain dash and glare about him that caught her. however, now we have got her safe at our house, and got rid of him, we must cheer her up again.

traddless house is one of the very houses  or it easily may have been  which he and sophy used to parcel out, in their evening walks. it is a large house but traddles keeps his papers in his dressingroom and his boots with his papers and he and sophy squeeze themselves into upper rooms, reserving the best bedrooms for the beauty and the girls. there is no room to spare in the house for more of the girls are here, and always are here, by some accident or other, than i know how to count. here, when we go in, is a crowd of them, running down to the door, and handing traddles about to be kissed, until he is out of breath. here, established in perpetuity, is the poor beauty, a widow with a little girl here, at dinner on sophys birthday, are the three married girls with their three husbands, and one of the husbands brothers, and another husbands cousin, and another husbands sister, who appears to me to be engaged to the cousin. traddles, exactly the same simple, unaffected fellow as he ever was, sits at the foot of the large table like a patriarch and sophy beams upon him, from the head, across a cheerful space that is certainly not glittering with britannia metal.

and now, as i close my task, subduing my desire to linger yet, these faces fade away. but one face, shining on me like a heavenly light by which i see all other objects, is above them and beyond them all. and that remains.

i turn my head, and see it, in its beautiful serenity, beside me.

my lamp burns low, and i have written far into the night but the dear presence, without which i were nothing, bears me company.

o agnes, o my soul, so may thy face be by me when i close my life indeed so may i, when realities are melting from me, like the shadows which i now dismiss, still find thee near me, pointing upward